
[Illustration: SENT THE DARTAWAY OVER THE LINE A WINNER.]




THE MOTOR BOYS AFLOAT

Or

The Stirring Cruise of the Dartaway

BY CLARENCE YOUNG

AUTHOR OF “THE RACER BOYS SERIES” AND “THE JACK RANGER SERIES.”


ILLUSTRATED


  NEW YORK
  CUPPLES & LEON COMPANY




BOOKS BY CLARENCE YOUNG


=THE MOTOR BOYS SERIES=

(_=Trade Mark, Reg. U. S. Pat. Of.=_)

12mo. Illustrated

  THE MOTOR BOYS
    Or Chums Through Thick and Thin
  THE MOTOR BOYS OVERLAND
    Or A Long Trip for Fun and Fortune
  THE MOTOR BOYS IN MEXICO
    Or The Secret of the Buried City
  THE MOTOR BOYS ACROSS THE PLAINS
    Or The Hermit of Lost Lake
  THE MOTOR BOYS AFLOAT
    Or The Stirring Cruise of the Dartaway
  THE MOTOR BOYS ON THE ATLANTIC
    Or The Mystery of the Lighthouse
  THE MOTOR BOYS IN STRANGE WATERS
    Or Lost in a Floating Forest
  THE MOTOR BOYS ON THE PACIFIC
    Or The Young Derelict Hunters
  THE MOTOR BOYS IN THE CLOUDS
    Or A Trip for Fame and Fortune

=THE JACK RANGER SERIES=

12mo. Finely Illustrated

  JACK RANGER’S SCHOOLDAYS
    Or The Rivals of Washington Hall
  JACK RANGER’S WESTERN TRIP
    Or From Boarding School to Ranch and Range
  JACK RANGER’S SCHOOL VICTORIES
    Or Track, Gridiron and Diamond
  JACK RANGER’S OCEAN CRUISE
    Or The Wreck of the Polly Ann
  JACK RANGER’S GUN CLUB
    Or From Schoolroom to Camp and Trail

  Copyright, 1908, by
  CUPPLES & LEON COMPANY

  THE MOTOR BOYS AFLOAT

  Printed in U. S. A.




CONTENTS


 CHAPTER                                PAGE
      I. WHAT THE POSTMAN BROUGHT          1
     II. THE MOTOR BOAT                   11
    III. AN ACCIDENT                      17
     IV. A QUEER KIND OF RAT              24
      V. PLANNING A CRUISE                32
     VI. AN ENCOUNTER WITH NODDY          37
    VII. TO THE RESCUE                    45
   VIII. PLOTTING                         52
     IX. A TEST OF SPEED                  60
      X. SAVED FROM THE FALLS             68
     XI. BILL BERRY’S THREATS             77
    XII. AN ALARM OF FIRE                 83
   XIII. THE QUEER TRAMP                  91
    XIV. CAMPING OUT                     101
     XV. THE MOTOR BOAT MISSING          109
    XVI. THE SEARCH                      116
   XVII. FINDING THE DARTAWAY            126
  XVIII. READY FOR A CRUISE              132
    XIX. THE STORE ROBBERY               143
     XX. OFF TO THE LAKE                 153
    XXI. THE RACE                        161
   XXII. THE COLLISION                   173
  XXIII. THE MYSTERIOUS VOICE            179
   XXIV. A QUEER MESSAGE                 188
    XXV. SEARCHING FOR THE SCHOONER      195
   XXVI. THE PIECE OF SILK               203
  XXVII. NED AND BOB CAPTURED            214
 XXVIII. JERRY’S RETURN                  224
   XXIX. THE CHASE                       230
    XXX. CAUGHT--CONCLUSION              237




THE MOTOR BOYS AFLOAT




CHAPTER I

WHAT THE POSTMAN BROUGHT


The shrill vibration of the postman’s whistle brought Bob Baker to the
front door on the run.

“Only a postal!” he exclaimed as the mail-man handed it to him. “It’s
for me though. Wonder what it is?”

He turned it over and glanced at what seemed to be only a printed form
with, here and there, a word written in.

“What’s it all about?” mused Bob.

Carefully he went through the lines of printing and writing. They
resolved themselves into a notice that at the freight station of the
Atlantic & Northern Railroad there was a piece of merchandise shipped
from the International Gas Engine Company, which article could be had
on application to the freight agent.

“It’s our motor boat!” exclaimed Bob. “It’s come! Hurrah! I must hurry
over and tell Ned and Jerry! Whoop! I’m glad it’s Saturday. We can put
in the whole day getting the boat from the station. Hurrah!”

“Is anything the matter, Bob?” asked Mrs. Baker, coming to the head of
the stairs and looking at her son, who, at that instant was standing on
his head in the lower hall.

“Matter? I should say there was, mother!” he cried, jumping to an
upright position. “Our motor boat’s here!”

“Oh dear!” exclaimed Mrs. Baker. “Now I suppose you’ll be going off on
cruises which will be worse than the automobile trips.”

“Worse? Better you mean, mother,” remarked Bob. “But I must run over to
Ned’s house. Where’s my hat?”

“Where did you leave it?”

“I don’t know,” replied the boy, who seldom could keep track of the
head covering. “Never mind, it’s warm, I’ll go without it.”

He ran from the house into the pleasant spring sunshine, and soon was
racing down the street toward the home of one of his chums, Ned Slade.
Reaching there he gave a shrill whistle on his fingers.

“What is it?” asked Ned, poking his head out of a window.

“She’s here!” shouted Bob.

“What! Our boat?”

“Sure! Just got a postal from the freight office. Come on, we’ll get
Jerry and have the boat taken to the river. Shiver my timbers, I can
hardly wait! Hurry up, Ned!”

Ned needed no urging, and soon the two boys were at Jerry Hopkins’
house. He was not home, but his mother told his chums where they could
find him, and they started off to a neighbor’s house, where Jerry had
gone on an errand.

The three boys had gone into partnership in the purchase of a motor
boat. They lived in Cresville, Mass. Bob Baker was the son of a
rich banker, while Ned Slade’s father was the proprietor of a large
department store. Jerry Hopkins was the son of a well-to-do widow.

The lads had been chums for a number of years, and had been closely
associated in a series of adventures which began with the purchase
of motor cycles and which were destined to be continued with the
acquisition of the motor boat.

As told in the first volume of this series, “The Motor Boys,” the three
took part in some bicycle races under the auspices of the Cresville
Athletic Club. They won, but in doing so incurred the enmity of Noddy
Nixon, a town bully, whose wealth had made him a spoiled son. One of
the chums won a motor cycle as a prize and, soon after this the other
boys also discarded their bicycles for the more rapid vehicles.

They had many adventures on the motor cycles, in some of which Noddy
Nixon played a prominent, if a mean part. The boys entered a motor
cycle race and were successful, winning the first prize, a big
automobile touring car. Because of a robbery at a local mill Noddy
Nixon had to flee from Cresville, running off one night in his father’s
automobile.

In the second book, “The Motor Boys Overland,” I told of how Ned, Bob
and Jerry started west. They had many exciting adventures, being put
to considerable trouble by Noddy, who heard of their trip and followed
them. The motor boys got permission from their folks to search for an
old mine which a prospector whom they befriended told them of. They
found the mine with the help of Jim Nestor, and secured possession,
though they had a close race with Nixon, and two of his cronies, Jack
Pender and also Bill Berry, a Cresville ne’er-do-well.

The mine proved to be a rich one, and the shares the boys received were
considerable. They arranged to have Jim Nestor work the claim for
them, as he was the largest shareholder, because of having known of the
mine previously.

But the finding of the mine did not end the adventures of the motor
boys. They had picked up on their trip west an old professor, Uriah
Snodgrass, who had heard of a buried city in Mexico. The boys resolved
to start for that country and got permission to go.

On the way many things occurred, as related in the third book of the
series, “The Motor Boys in Mexico.” They had fights with Mexicans, and
their old enemy Noddy Nixon turned up to bother them. There were fights
with wild animals and reptiles, and by a plot between Noddy and some
rascally Mexicans, Bob was captured, but later got away.

The buried city was found most unexpectedly by the auto sinking through
the earth upon a concealed passageway. There were strange happenings
in the long-lost city, and the professor discovered a valuable box of
jewels.

The young travelers then resolved to make a trip across the prairies
and in the fourth book of the series, called “The Motor Boys Across the
Plains,” I told of their exciting journey. An old hermit was found who
proved to be the father of a boy that the three chums rescued from a
desperate gang. Later the hermit was of much assistance to the motor
boys, since the gang was trying to get possession of the mine. The
hermit was one of the original owners of the claim, and through him
the mine was kept in the power of the boys and Nestor. The claim was
found to be paying better than ever; and, after defeating the gang that
sought to get it, the motor boys came home, having been away a long
time.

Their parents, no less than their friends and relatives in Cresville,
were glad to see them, and it took the lads several days to tell of
their adventures. The mine, the possession of which was kept in a sort
of company formed by the boys, their parents and Jim Nestor, paid well,
and it was with some of the proceeds that the boys bought a motor boat.

They still kept their automobile, but as they had arrived home in the
fall, and as the winter, which soon came, was an unusually severe one,
they had little chance to go out in the touring car.

They had resumed their studies, all three of them attending the
Cresville Academy. It was now the close of May and in another month
they would finish the term.

Ned and Bob hurried to where Mrs. Hopkins had said Jerry could be
found. He was just leaving to come home.

“Hey!” called Bob, catching sight of him. “The boat’s come, Jerry!”

“Really?”

“Sure! Got a postal! Come on to the freight yard!”

The boys, whose spirits were bubbling over with excitement ran, rather
than walked, to the freight house. They went up the platform steps by
jumps and burst in on the agent, who was busy over waybills.

“Where is it, Mr. Hitter?” gasped Bob.

“Where’s what?” asked Mr. Hitter, peering over the tops of his glasses.

“Why our motor boat.”

“I don’t know nothin’ about no motor boats,” said the agent, preparing
to go on with his work.

The hearts of the boys began to sink. Suppose the boat had been lost in
shipment?

“But this postal says it has arrived,” persisted Bob showing what the
letter carrier had given him.

“Oh that,” said Mr. Hitter. “Well, yes, there is a piece of freight as
big as a house addressed to you. But I didn’t s’pose it was a boat. I
took it for a specimen of a whale that I thought Professor Snodgrass
had ketched while you an’ him was down in Mexico. It’s boxed up jest
like a whale. I’ll bet it is a whale, Bob.”

“Where is it?” cried the boys in chorus.

“Down at th’ t’other end of th’ platform. But look out it don’t bite
ye! I’ll bet it’s a shark if ’tain’t a whale,” and Mr. Hitter chuckled
heartily.

The boys raced down the platform. At the end, where it had just been
taken from a flat car, was a long box, measuring about twenty-seven by
ten, by seven feet. Indeed it did look as if it contained the remains
of some prehistoric monster.

“Hurrah! This is it!” cried Ned, as he read from a paper pasted on the
big box:

“_One motor boat. This side up with care._”

“Get a hammer and we’ll unpack it!” cried Bob. “Where’s an axe?”

“Now ye’d better go slow, boys,” cautioned Mr. Hitter, coming up at
this juncture. “Was ye calalatin’ to sail right here from th’ depot
down th’ main street?”

“That’s so, I forgot you have to have water for a boat,” spoke Bob,
wiping the perspiration from his forehead, for he was quite fat, and
the excitement made him warm.

“You’ll have to make haste slowly, Chunky,” said Ned, applying to him
the nick-name Bob’s chums sometimes used.

“How are we going to get it home?” asked Jerry.

“Can’t ye carry it on yer shoulders?” asked Mr. Hitter with a laugh.

“I’ll bet it weighs a ton,” spoke Bob.

“Nearer two, accordin’ t’ th’ way bill,” chimed in the freight agent.
“Now I tell ye what t’ do. Leave it right in th’ box. Go off an’ git
Hen Jaegers, who’s got th’ biggest truck in town t’ cart it t’ the
river for ye. Then ye won’t damage it. Jest come in an’ sign the
receipt an’ let Hen do th’ rest. If ye carried it yerselves ye might
drop it, an’ damage the spark plug or whatever it is makes it go,” and
he laughed again at his joke.

The boys decided this would be the best to do. Bob, to whom the boat
was consigned, put his signature to the receipt, and then the lads
hurried to the office of the truckman.

“I wonder if we can try it to-night?” asked Jerry.

“Guess so,” put in Ned. “I’ve been reading the catalog and directions
until I know ’em by heart.”

“Do you remember when we first got the motor cycles and how one got
going and we couldn’t stop it?” asked Ned.

“Sure. And when we first got the auto,” chimed in Bob.

“That reminds me of something I almost forgot,” spoke Jerry. “Did you
hear the news?”

“What news?” came from Ned and Bob.

“About Noddy Nixon. He’s coming back. His father has fixed everything
up, I understand.”

“You don’t say so!” exclaimed Ned. “Well, he’s got nerve after what he
did to us, trying to rob us of the mine and putting those Mexicans up
to kidnap Bob. I’d like to give him a good threshing.”

“I’ll bet he’ll make trouble for us,” said Bob. “I’ll be worried about
our motor boat all the while it’s on the river, as long as Noddy Nixon
is in town.”

“Nonsense, he’ll not interfere with us any more,” came from Jerry.

“Well, I’m no calamity howler,” put in Bob, “but I’ll bet we are going
to have more trouble with Noddy.”

And after events showed that Bob had guessed rightly.




CHAPTER II

THE MOTOR BOAT


The boys found Mr. Jaeger so busy hauling all sorts of freight and
merchandise from the depot and other parts of Cresville that he could
not promise to go after the boat that day.

“Look here, Mr. Jaeger,” said Bob. “We’ve got to have that boat on the
river to-night or we’ll lose all our sleep, and it will be your fault.
We’ll come and stand under your window after dark and sing.”

“Oh my! Oh my!” exclaimed the truckman, throwing up his hands.

“Yes, we will!” insisted Bob. “We’ll sing ‘The Solder’s Farewell’ and
‘My Bonnie Lies over the Ocean’ if you don’t get that boat for us.”

“Don’t threaten any more!” cried Mr. Jaeger. “I’ll haul the boat for
you if I have to disappoint every customer I’ve got. Only don’t sing.
I can’t stand it. Never could,” and he laughed. Then he called his
assistant and gave orders to have the boat taken from the freight
station.

It was quite a job, for the boat was encased in a heavy box to prevent
breakage, but eventually it was loaded upon the wagon. The boys climbed
upon the truck and rode along, fearful to let the precious boat get out
of their sight.

It was about a mile to the river and all along the way many persons
stared at the big load, wondering what the motor boys were up to now,
since their adventures were known all over Cresville. As the truck was
passing Mr. Nixon’s house Jerry nudged Bob.

“What is it?” asked Chunky.

“There’s Noddy.”

“Where?”

“In the barn. He was just looking out. There he is now.”

Bob caught sight of Noddy’s head as he quickly dodged out of sight.

“Never mind,” said Bob, “we’ll be on the lookout for him after this.”

Noddy Nixon did not seem to care to be seen by the motor boys. As it
developed, after the part he had played in the capture of Bob and in
inducing the gang of Mexicans, Bill Berry and others to follow on the
trail of the searchers after the lost city, the young rascal had kept
pretty well under cover. But, being tired of a roving life and keeping
so far away from home Noddy had written to his father.

Mr. Nixon had called on Mr. Baker, and had humbly apologized for
Noddy’s actions, promising to see that his son did no more mischief.
On these conditions, of which Mr. Baker said nothing to his son or the
other boys, Noddy was allowed to come home, it being agreed that he
would not be prosecuted for his crimes. He had reached his house that
very day, though the rumor of his coming had preceded him.

In anticipation of the arrival of the motor boat the boys had built a
float and dock on the edge of the river fronting on a piece of land
belonging to Mr. Baker. This plot adjoined one owned by Mr. Nixon, who
had a small boathouse where were kept a rowboat and a small sailing
craft.

The boys had hired a carpenter to erect for them a good sized shelter
where their motor boat might be kept, but it was not quite finished.
The big box was soon unloaded and opened.

“Ain’t she just a dandy!” cried Ned.

“A regular beauty!” exploded Jerry.

“Finest thing in the country!” came from Bob, his desire to eat now
forgotten. “It’s worth every cent we paid for it. I only hope it will
go all right.”

“Of course it will go,” answered Ned. “I wonder if we have any
gasolene?”

“I sent some down last night on the chance that she would come to-day,”
said Jerry. “Now to launch the _Dartaway_!”

“The _Dartaway_? Is that her name?” asked Ned.

“Sure,” replied Jerry. “I forgot to tell you when I wrote out the order
that I told the manufacturers to give her that name. If you don’t like
it, we can change it.”

“That’s a fine name,” came from Ned, and Bob said it suited him.

The boat was twenty-five feet long and about six feet beam. The engine
was a four cylinder one, with all the latest improvements, arranged
with three speeds forward and a reverse just as an automobile is,
and the craft also steered with a bright colored wheel in the front,
similar to a touring car.

There was a little cockpit forward where there was room for six to
sit comfortably and leave a place for the steersman. The engineer had
a little place partitioned off for himself, and amidships were roomy
lockers and an arrangement where a table could be set.

There was even a small galley with a stove which burned gasolene, and
food could be cooked on board. There was a camping outfit of dishes and
kitchen utensils, and the lockers could be made into fairly comfortable
bunks in case one wanted to sleep on board.

There was a portable awning that could be put up to cover the whole of
the craft and side curtains that could be fastened shut. The one in
front was fitted with a celluloid window so that in stormy weather the
boat could be worked and steered under shelter. Also, if the occupants
desired they could pass a night on board and keep dry in the hardest
rain.

A whistle worked by the exhaust of the gasolene explosions, a search
lamp, similar to those on automobiles, a small anchor, a regular ship’s
compass, flags and a kit of repair tools, with some extra parts of the
engine, completed the boat’s equipment.

The truckmen, no less interested than the boys, surveyed the _Dartaway_.
It was indeed a fine boat and the motor boys might well be proud of her.
There was nothing like her on the river. She looked speedy, as if the
name fitted her.

“Now to get her into the water,” said Ned. “How are we going to do it?
I never launched a boat before.”

“I’ll show ye,” spoke the truck driver. “Come on men,” and he motioned
to his helpers.

They passed a heavy rope about the cradle, and ran one end of it to a
windlass under the front seat of the big wagon. The vehicle had been
backed down on the dock. The driver next placed some rollers under the
bottom of the cradle, and the craft was soon in the water.

By bow and stern lines the craft was made fast to the float. Then the
boys jumped in. The boat rocked gently to and fro. It bobbed up and
down slightly and swung with the current of the river.

“Oh! This is something like!” cried Bob as he grasped the steering
wheel, and gave it a few turns.

“That’s like you, taking the easy part the first thing!” exclaimed Ned.
“Why don’t you crank up the engine?”

“What’s the use, there’s no gasolene,” came from Bob.

“We’ll soon remedy that,” replied Jerry, as he hurried into the
boathouse.




CHAPTER III

AN ACCIDENT


Jerry came back with a large can and a funnel. With the help of the
boys he filled the tank in the forward part of the boat.

“Now we’re ready to go,” he said.

“Hold on,” came from Ned, who had been reading a card of instructions
that was attached to the engine. “This says it is best to let the boat
rest in the water a few hours after launching to swell the seams before
starting the engine, as they might strain open.”

“Oh I’m so glad you discovered that,” Bob said. “We might have gone out
and been sunk! Let’s go to dinner first.”

“I guess that’s what you were thinking of all the while instead of any
danger,” retorted Ned. “But I guess it’s just as well to let the boat
rest a bit. Besides, we’ll have to oil the engine good before starting
it.”

“Will we leave the boat here alone and all go to dinner?” asked Ned. “I
think one of us ought to stay on guard. Bob can stay until you and I
come back, Jerry,” and he winked the eye concealed from Chunky.

“Oh I say, fellows!” cried Bob. “I don’t believe any one will touch the
boat.”

His friends burst out laughing at the woe-begone expression on his
face, and the manner in which Bob placed his hands over the region of
his stomach.

“I guess one of the carpenters will watch the _Dartaway_ until we come
back,” suggested Jerry, and the man who had the contract for the boat
house agreed. He did not go home to dinner.

Bob seemed to hesitate on emerging from the dining room after the meal.
Ned noticed it and asked:

“Didn’t you have enough of that chicken, Chunky?”

“Oh yes,” replied Bob with a sigh.

“Then what’s the matter?”

“I was thinking we might get stuck out in the river aboard the boat,”
said the fleshy youth.

“Why you’re not afraid, are you? You can swim.”

“No, I’m not exactly afraid of that.”

“Then what?”

“Why I was thinking if we got stuck, you know there’s nothing aboard
to eat, and--and--we might be hungry--so I was thinking--.”

“Well, what?” as Bob hesitated.

“We might take some of those chicken sandwiches along, if your mother
didn’t object. They’d come in handy.”

“Well of all things!” gasped Ned. “I believe you’d take a lunch along
if you were going to a banquet, for fear you’d be hungry on the road.
Go ahead, Chunky. Take all you want of the sandwiches. Here’s a bag,”
and he ran to the kitchen and came back with a flour sack.

Bob gravely emptied the plate and also put some pieces of cake and a
few pickles into the sack. Then carefully tying it up he followed the
others from the room.

It was agreed that Jerry, from having made a more careful study of
the machinery than either of the others, should act as engineer on
the initial trip. Accordingly Bob and Ned drew lots to see who should
steer, and the choice fell to Ned.

With the carpenters watching them curiously the boys climbed aboard
and prepared to start. Jerry looked over the machinery, adjusted the
valves, saw that the wires leading from the batteries to the cylinder
spark plugs were all right, and cranked up. Though the fly wheel was
heavy it turned easily because well adjusted and oiled.

“Hurrah! We’re off!” cried Bob.

“Not yet,” said Jerry. “I haven’t thrown in the clutch yet. You forget
this is a new style of boat.”

Letting the engine run a few minutes to warm up Jerry went over it all
carefully and applied oil where it seemed to need it. He watched the
feed cups on the cylinders and saw that they were working properly.

“I guess we can start off on the low gear,” he announced as he grasped
the lever and advanced the spark a trifle to make the explosions come
more rapidly.

The screw began to revolve and, at the stern of the _Dartaway_ there
came a swirl of foam as the blades beat the water.

“Here we go!” cried Bob. “This is something like! It’s got an
automobile beat a mile!”

“Don’t say anything against automobiles,” cautioned Jerry. “Ours stood
by us well.”

“So it did,” agreed Bob. “But this is simply immense!”

Up the river they went, and about a mile from the float they passed a
rowboat containing two boys and two girls.

_Toot! Toot! Toot!_

A shrill whistle sent a blast out as Ned pulled the cord which operated
it. The occupants of the rowboat looked up and waved their hands.

“Give us a ride!” they cried.

“It’s Andy Rush, Sam Morton, Alice Vines and Mollie Horton,” said Ned.
“Shall we take ’em in, Jerry?”

“Sure,” was the reply. “I’ll slow down. Steer over toward ’em.”

The speed was lessened and Ned threw the wheel around until the
_Dartaway_ was headed toward the small craft.

“Look out! Don’t run us down! We’ll upset--I can’t swim--save the
girls--don’t blow up the engine--throw us a life preserver--back
water--back pedal--put on brakes!” cried one of the boys.

“Oh Andy Rush, you’re enough to give any one a headache!” exclaimed
Alice Vines. “No wonder your name is Rush!”

“Stop rowing and we’ll come alongside. Pull in the oars!” cried Jerry,
and Ned skillfully put the _Dartaway_ close to the smaller boat. While
Bob steadied it against the motor craft the occupants got into the
cockpit.

“Shall we tow your boat?” asked Jerry, “or leave it tied up on shore?”

“Better tow it,” said Sam, “we hired it for the afternoon and have to
return it.”

So the rowboat was fastened to the stern of the _Dartaway_ and Jerry
started the motor up again.

“Isn’t this lovely!” exclaimed Mollie Horton. “Where did you ever get
such a beautiful boat?”

“It’s a perfect dream!” came from Alice.

“You bet!” put in Andy. “Nightmare when you smell the gasolene--whoop!
Crank her up--don’t explode--get mad--say all sorts of things--turn
off the batteries--throw on the magneto--test the spark plugs--get a
shock--get madder--then all of a sudden--off you go--whoop!”

“It’s the same old Andy,” said Jerry with a smile.

“I’m going to try her on full speed now,” said Jerry, when after
several miles the boat was turned around. He threw the lever over as
far as it would go and advanced the spark lever to the end of the
rachet.

The _Dartaway_ sprang forward almost as if alive. The water fairly
boiled under the stern and she shot down the river at top speed. The
engine was purring, throbbing and humming as the explosions came faster
and warmed the cylinders up.

“This is something like going!” cried Bob.

Suddenly there was a snap as if something had broken and with a cough
and wheeze the engine came to a stop. Jerry sprang forward and shut off
the gasolene to avoid flooding the cylinders with it. Then he threw out
the clutch.

“Oh! Has something happened?” cried Alice.

“I’m afraid so,” replied Jerry.

“Is it an accident?” asked Mollie, turning pale. “Are we in danger?”

“It’s an accident, but I don’t believe we are in danger,” spoke Jerry.
“We can get ashore at the worst. Just sit quietly until I make an
investigation.”

The boat was drifting slowly on the current. Then it seemed to hit
something and stop.

“We’re on the sand bar!” Ned cried. “I forgot it was right here.”




CHAPTER IV

A QUEER KIND OF RAT


“Oh, this is terrible!” cried Alice. “I’m going to jump out!”

“Put us ashore! We’ll sink!” screamed Mollie.

“Look here!” exclaimed Jerry sternly. “You girls are old enough to know
better. There’s no danger, even if the boat has broken down, and we
are stuck fast. If worst comes to worst we can row you ashore. Now, if
you’ll keep quiet, I’ll see what’s the matter.”

As Ned had guessed, they were on a sand bar. The boat had been moving
quite swiftly before the accident happened, and, what with the momentum
and the drift of the current, had run well up on the obstruction.

“Well,” remarked Jerry when matters had quieted down somewhat, “I guess
the first thing to do is to look and see what the trouble is with the
motor.”

With the assistance of Ned and Bob, Jerry tested the engine to see if
there was good compression, that is if there was the proper mixture of
air with the vapor from the gasolene to produce the explosive gas which
made the piston move. He found that there was no trouble from this
source.

“How’s the spark?” asked Ned.

“I haven’t tried that yet,” said Jerry. “I will now.”

He detached one of the wires connected with the batteries and magneto
or small dynamo from the binding post of one of the cylinder heads and
adjusting the contact breaker, touched the end to the set screw. There
was no answering spurt of greenish flame.

“That’s the trouble,” said Ned. “No spark. Wire must be broken.”

“Let’s see if it’s the faults of the batteries or the magneto,” spoke
Bob, who was inclined to go slow.

By means of a small handle on the armature of the magneto it was
whirled rapidly around. As soon as this was done there came a vicious
spark from the end of the wire.

“Trouble is in the batteries,” said Ned.

The spark which exploded the gases in the cylinders of the _Dartaway_
was produced in two ways. When the engine was first started it came
from a series of dry cells and a spark coil. Once the fly wheel was
revolving well, a switch could be turned to make the current come from
the magneto, which was operated by it. But it was necessary that the
fly wheel revolve swiftly before any current sufficient to operate the
motor would be produced by the magneto.

Now the only way the fly wheel could be operated swiftly enough was to
run the engine rapidly and this could not be done except by a spark
from the batteries. So it will be seen that the motor boys were in
trouble of a peculiar kind right at the start.

True, if one of them could have turned the fly wheel swiftly enough by
hand to have made the magneto produce a spark, to get the explosions
started the problem would have been solved, but it is doubtful if even
a strong man could have performed that feat.

They tried it by turns, when Jerry had exhausted everything else he
thought of, but for all their back-breaking efforts there was no
result. The _Dartaway_ belied its name.

The boys were hot and tired. The girls were nervous. It had been
Jerry’s plan to get the engine started, reverse the screw, and see if
he could not pull the boat from the bar. But she stuck fast.

“Shall we row the girls ashore?” asked Sammy. “It’s getting late and
the folks may be worried.”

“Well, we’re sorry to lose your company,” said Jerry, “but we seem to
be up against it. Maybe it would be the best thing to do. We’ll make up
for this some day and give you all a better ride.”

The girls got up, preparing to leave.

“Well, here’s a fine pickle!” exclaimed Sammy.

“What’s happened?” cried Alice.

“Our rowboat’s gone!”

“Our boat?” asked Andy, shortening his remarks for another time.

“That’s what I said,” came from Sammy. “The rope got untied. She’s
floated off. I guess you’ll have to entertain us a little longer,
Jerry.”

“Make yourselves comfortable,” said the engineer of the _Dartaway_.
“I’m going to find out what’s the trouble before I go home. We’ll get
you back some time.”

“I hope it’s soon,” murmured Alice. “It will be dark in a little while.”

Spurred on by the plight of their guests the motor boys redoubled their
efforts to discover the cause of the trouble and remedy it. That
it was in the wires leading from the batteries to the cylinders was
certain, but the conductors, when examined as far as possible, showed
no sign of break.

“I’ll just have to run new wires, temporary ones of course,” said Jerry
after a while. “It will take a little time, but it’s bound to do the
trick.”

He overhauled the stores and extra parts in one of the lockers. “I hope
we have a coil of wire,” he muttered. “I’m certain I saw some.”

But his search did not reveal any. The situation was getting serious.
Already the sun was behind the trees, and the girls plainly showed
their nervousness.

“Let Sammy and me get out, take the rope and try to pull the boat off
the bar,” suggested Andy.

“It’s too risky,” said Ned. “This bottom is of the quick-sand variety,
and you’d sink down. I guess we’re stuck here until the motor goes.”

Bob was rummaging about under one of the seats. He hauled out a
package, exclaiming as he did so:

“I’ve got it!”

“What, the wire?” asked Jerry excitedly.

“No, that lunch I brought along! I’m glad it’s here. I’m hungry and I
guess the rest of you can nibble at a chicken sandwich or two.”

“Can we?--well I guess yes!” cried Andy, and the others chimed in with
him. Even Jerry, though much worried over the mishap, stopped tinkering
with the engine long enough to munch some of the food.

“Call me all the names you want to,” said Chunky with a grin, “but
you’ll have to admit I’m there with the goods.”

“Good for you, Chunky!” exclaimed Ned.

“Oh!” cried Alice suddenly. “Something bit me on the foot! I believe
it’s a rat! Oh dear! Save me!”

She jumped up, much excited, Mollie following her example.

“Sit still!” cried Jerry. “There are no rats aboard!”

“But something bit me!” insisted the girl. “It had sharp teeth and I
felt them in my ankle. I have low shoes on!”

She moved away from where she had been sitting. Mollie retreated toward
the stern. Jerry got a lantern and lighted it, for it was now dusk, and
dark down in the cockpit where the girls had been resting. He made a
careful examination.

“I’ve got it!” he cried.

“What, the rat?” asked Alice.

“No; I’ve found the broken wire that caused all our trouble,” came from
Jerry. “It was the end of it sticking up through a crack and touching
you on the ankle that you felt. Now we’ll be off!”

It was indeed the break in the copper conductor that he had discovered.
The ends of the wire came up through a space in the flooring of the
boat. They ran from a compartment in the forecastle back to the motor.
In less than a minute Jerry had twisted the broken ends together.
Then he fastened the conductor back in the spark plug. Turning on the
gasolene he gave the fly wheel a twist.

There came a welcome chug-chug and then a throb of the motor. Jerry
threw in the reverse gear. The water at the stern was churned into foam
as the screw revolved. Slowly the _Dartaway_ backed off the sand bar
and into a deeper channel. Then Jerry threw in the forward speed and
the craft shot ahead.

“Hurrah!” cried the boys. “We’re off!”

“It’s lucky you discovered that rat,” said Jerry to Alice, “or we might
have stayed there all night.”

Bob lighted the search lamp, as it had grown quite dark, and the shaft
of glaring whiteness shone on the black river. Jerry speeded up the
boat, and it went down the stream toward Cresville at a rapid pace.




CHAPTER V

PLANNING A CRUISE


Ned was steering, and, having passed two or three large craft he put
the boat over to the Cresville side of the river, to gain the advantage
of the better current. He was peering ahead into the darkness, lighted
up by the slender pencil of fire from the search lantern, when he
suddenly made an explanation, and threw the steering-wheel over so
quickly that the _Dartaway_ careened to one side.

“Look out!” cried Ned. “Slow her down, Jerry! There’s a boat ahead!”

Before Jerry could do this, however, the motor boat rushed past some
dark object in the water. There was a crash and splintering of wood,
and the occupants of the _Dartaway_ dimly saw a man crouching in the
bottom of a small boat as they rushed past.

“We only smashed one of his oars,” said Ned, as he turned the wheel
back to avoid running the craft into the bank. “I just saw him in
time. He wasn’t making a sound or I might have heard him. He should
have shown a light.”

“Could you see who it was?” asked Bob, between bites at a chicken
sandwich, for he had again attacked the lunch.

“Probably a lone fisherman after eels,” responded the steersman.

By this time the _Dartaway_ was approaching Cresville, the lights of
the town being visible.

The girls and boys from the rowboat were landed at the main dock and
the motor boys started back for their own shelter.

“I wonder if we did much damage to that boat we hit,” mused Bob. “Whose
was it any way?”

“I can’t tell you whose it was, but I think it was the one the girls
were out in, and which floated away from us,” said Ned. “But I can tell
you who was in it.”

“Who?” asked Jerry sharply.

“Bill Berry!” spoke Ned.

“Are you sure?”

“Positive. I had a good glimpse of him just before I swung the wheel
over. I’d know him anywhere. We have good reason to. I’d know him and
Noddy Nixon, his bosom friend, wherever I met them.”

“Bill Berry, eh,” said Jerry softly. “Well if he and Noddy are in town
together it means that some mischief is afoot. They never get together
but something happens. We’ll have to be on our guard. They may try to
pay us back for getting ahead of them as we did on several occasions. I
wonder if Bill and Noddy have met since Noddy came home.”

“What do you suppose he was doing in that boat, if it was the one that
floated away from us?” asked Bob.

“He was probably hanging around near the river bank and saw it when it
floated down,” said Ned. “He thought it was a chance to earn money by
selling it or by returning it to the dock, and he just got in it.”

A little later the boys had housed their boat and started for home.

“We ought to go off on a cruise somewhere,” suggested Ned. “It would be
a fine thing to go down the river to Lake Cantoga, and spend three or
four days camping there. We could hunt and fish and have a bully time.”

“Say, that would be sport!” agreed Bob. “We could take along a lot to
eat in case the fish didn’t bite or we didn’t kill anything.”

“Say, Chunky,” spoke Jerry solemnly, “if you mention eating again
to-night, after the way you devoured chicken sandwiches to-day, I--I’ll
hit you, that’s what!”

“I can’t help it,” said Bob with a little sigh, “I guess I was born
hungry.”

“Well if you weren’t, you certainly have acquired the habit since,”
observed Ned dryly. “But that aside, what do you think of my plan,
Jerry.”

“Nothing better, only I guess we’ll have to wait until the term closes.
I don’t want to flunk in my exams, and I guess you don’t, either of
you. I’m a little bit shaky on my algebra, and my Latin is none of the
best.”

“Oh, of course we’ll wait until the academy closes,” agreed Ned. “That
will only be three weeks now. In the meantime we can take short trips
and get acquainted with our boat. If there are as many kinds of trouble
that can happen as are down in the book, we will no more than have
learned how to remedy them by the time we want to start.”

The next day, Sunday, the boys went down to the dock for a look at the
_Dartaway_. As they approached they saw some one peering through a side
window into the house where the boat floated.

“Some one is nosing around,” observed Ned.

As they came closer the person did not move away, evidently not hearing
their footsteps, as the wind was blowing in the opposite direction.

“It’s Noddy Nixon!” cried Bob, as the person turned with a start.




CHAPTER VI

AN ENCOUNTER WITH NODDY


At first it seemed as if Noddy was about to run away, like a child
surprised in some mischief. But he saw that he could not escape without
going past the motor boys, unless, indeed, he jumped into the river
and swam across. So he decided to bluff it out. He turned aside and
appeared to be gazing into the stream as the three comrades approached.

“What shall we do?” whispered Bob. “Speak to him or not notice him?”

“Leave it to me,” said Jerry. “I’ll see what he has been up to.”

Noddy stooped and picked up several stones which he idly tossed into
the water.

“When did you get back?” asked Jerry, trying to speak politely to his
old enemy.

“None of your business!” retorted Noddy. “And what’s more, if I find
any of you fellers has been tellin’ tales about me I’ll make you smart
for it! I’ll sue you for damages! I don’t want to have anything to do
with you!”

“I guess that feeling is as much on our side as it is on yours,” spoke
Ned.

“Exactly,” chimed in Jerry. “And what’s more, Noddy Nixon, if you feel
that way about it you’d better get off this dock. It’s private property
and we don’t allow any but our friends to come here and see our motor
boat. You’re a trespasser and the sooner you move on the better we’ll
like it.”

“I’ll go when I get good and ready!” fired back Noddy. “I came here
because I have a claim against you, and I want it settled now or you’ll
be the worse for it!”

“A claim against us?” asked Jerry. “What sort of a claim? Has it
anything to do with the old mine that you didn’t get?”

“You think you’re mighty smart!” exclaimed Noddy, flushing as he
thought of how the motor boys had outwitted him. “This is a claim I
have against you for smashing one of my rowboats last night.”

“Your rowboat!” exclaimed Ned. “Since when have you owned any rowboats?”

“There’s the bill for damages,” spoke Noddy, handing over a piece of
paper.

The boys examined it curiously. It was a billhead on which was set
forth that Noddy Nixon had succeeded to the business formerly conducted
by James Lawrence of hiring out boats at Cresville. The bill was made
out to the three chums, jointly and called for the payment of fifteen
dollars for damage done to a rowboat.

“So you’ve been set up in business by your father, eh?” asked Jerry.

“My father has nothing to do with this. I’m my own boss,” snapped Noddy.

“Must have made the deal quite suddenly,” commented Ned. “Lawrence
owned the business up to two nights ago, for I hired a boat from him
then.”

“The deal was closed last night,” Noddy condescended to explain. “The
boat Andy Rush and Sammy Morton hired and took the girls out in was the
first one I let and you had to go and run it down in your old motor
boat. It was a piece of spite work and you’ll have to pay for it.”

“Look here, Noddy Nixon!” exclaimed Ned. “You’ve got a lot of nerve to
charge fifteen dollars for the little damage we did to your boat. It
was an old one anyhow, for I know all Lawrence’s craft and he hasn’t a
new one in the place. Besides I was steering and I saw what damage we
did. We smashed an oar, and we’re willing to pay for that, or get you a
new one.”

“You smashed my boat, and you’ll pay for it or go to jail!” fairly
shouted Noddy.

“I can prove that we only broke an oar!” exclaimed Ned.

“How you going to do it?” asked Noddy in sneering tones. “It was a dark
night, and I have the broken boat to show what damage was done.”

“If necessary we’ll fight this case,” spoke Ned quietly, “and we’ll
call some one as a witness who can tell just how much the boat was
damaged, for he was in it at the time.”

“Who’s that?” inquired Noddy, with a start.

“Your old pal Bill Berry! Bill may not relish being put on the witness
stand, but he’ll have to go if you insist on pressing this bill.”

Noddy turned pale.

“Bill Berry isn’t within a hundred miles of here,” he said faintly.

“Maybe he skipped out of town over night,” spoke Ned, “but he was in
that boat last night. Don’t try any more of your tricks on us, Noddy,
or it may go hard with you!”

Ned crumpled up the bill into a ball and threw it at Noddy. He did not
intend to do it, but the wad of paper struck the bully in the eye.

“I’ll pay you for that!” cried Noddy.

He sprang at Ned, who was so surprised at the result of his thoughtless
act that he did not know what to do. Noddy’s fist shot out and struck
Ned in the face.

With the instinct every boy has, when he is hit, to strike back, Ned
doubled up his fists and assumed the attitude approved in the roped
arena. Noddy’s rush had carried him past Ned, but the bully, enraged
at the failure of his plans, came back with a jump straight at his
antagonist. It looked as if there would be a fistic encounter that
peaceful Sunday.

“Don’t fight him now!” cried Jerry rushing between the two. “Let it go,
Ned. We don’t want any trouble with the blackguard. We can settle with
him later!”

Deciding to obey his friend’s advice Ned dropped his arms and stepped
to one side. Noddy was close upon him and, when Ned got out of the way
so quickly the bully could not stop in time. Ned was standing near
the edge of the dock, and, meeting with no resistance in his mad rush
Noddy fairly flew over the string-piece and landed in the water with
a resounding splash. He disappeared from sight as the river was quite
deep there.

“Get a rope!” cried Jerry.

“Throw him a life preserver!” yelled Bob.

“I’ll get a boat hook!” exclaimed Ned, racing toward where the
_Dartaway_ was kept.

By this time Noddy had come to the surface. He was spluttering and
gasping, for his sudden bath had caught him unawares and his mouth and
nose were filled with water. He floundered around, handicapped by his
clothes, and did not seem to know what to do.

Jerry was about to spring into the water when he was suddenly halted by
hearing some one exclaim in a high pitched, sing-song voice:

“Never mind my lad, jumping after him. He’s a regular duck, and surely
can swim!”

The boys turned to behold a shabbily dressed though pleasant faced man
sauntering down on the dock.

“If it isn’t Pete Bumps!” cried Bob, recognizing the odd character who
used to work for his father, but who now did odd jobs about the town.
“Can he really swim, Pete?”

“Swims like a feather in all kinds of weather,” replied Pete, one of
his peculiarities being to talk in rhyme.

Noddy, seeing there was no likelihood now of any one coming in after
him began to strike out for shore.

“I’ll give him a hand to reach the land,” recited Pete, and, taking a
boat hook, which Bob had by this time found, Pete proceeded to stick
the end into Noddy’s coat, just back of his neck.

“Leave me alone!” snapped Noddy, between gasps.

But Pete was not to be cheated of his rescue. He got a firm grip with
the hook on Noddy’s clothing and then, walking along the side of the
dock, towed the bully ashore. In the excess of his zeal, Pete moved him
so fast that half the time Noddy’s head was under water, and he was in
no amiable frame of mind when he staggered ashore, the water dripping
from his Sunday suit.

“I’ll--I’ll have the law on you for this!” he cried.

“What? Because you took a notion to jump into the river?” asked Ned. “I
guess it would be a queer jury that would award you anything. Will you
come into the boat house and dry off?”

“I wouldn’t go in your boat house for a hundred dollars!” cried Noddy.
“But I’ll get even with you!”

“He’s rather mad, for such a wet lad, but never mind that, I’ve got
his hat,” said Pete, and, with a skillful motion he speared Noddy’s
head-covering with the boat hook.

“Don’t you spoil that hat!” cried Noddy.

“Now Noddy don’t you worry, though I was in a hurry. It only has a
little tear, it’s better than before to wear, because it lets in lots
of air,” sung Pete, inspecting the hat, which had a small hole in it.

Noddy walked up on the dock, the water sloshing from his shoes at every
step. He picked up his wet hat, jammed it down on his head, and, with
an angry look at the other boys started off. As he did so a figure
burst through the bushes and ran toward the group on the dock. At first
the boys thought it was a tramp. They looked closely at the man.

“Why it’s Bill Berry!” exclaimed Jerry. “I thought you said he was a
hundred miles from here, Noddy.”

“You old fool you, what did you want to come around for?” snarled Noddy
at his notorious chum.

“I thought they were going to drown you, and I decided to take a hand
and give them a walloping,” said Berry sullenly. “I owe them something
on my own account.”

He advanced threateningly toward the motor boys.




CHAPTER VII

TO THE RESCUE


Bill Berry was a big burly fellow, pretty much of a brute in his ways,
and, though the boys knew he was a coward at heart, they realized that
he might prove an ugly customer in a fight. He could not be depended on
to battle fairly, but would take any advantage that came his way. Nor
would he hesitate to use a stick or stone, where others would rely on
the weapons which nature had given them; their fists.

“We’d better get ready for trouble,” said Jerry in a low voice.

“Shall we tackle him?” asked Ned. “He and Noddy will be no more than a
match for the three of us.”

“Don’t fight if we can avoid it,” counseled Jerry.

Bill Berry, with anger in his eyes continued to advance. Noddy, who had
started to go away, came back, emboldened by the attitude of his crony.

“I’ve been wanting to get my hands on you fresh lads for some time!”
exclaimed Bill. “Now I’ve got a chance.”

“You might have stopped off last night, just before we ran you down,”
said Jerry. “We could have accommodated you then.”

“Was that you, last night?” asked Bill, suddenly. “Did you see me? Did
you see the Blue--”

Then Bill seemed to remember that he was talking too much. He came to a
sudden stop, and looked over at Noddy, who was detected in the act of
shaking his fist at his former ally.

“We didn’t see anything blue, green or red,” put in Ned. “It was too
dark to see anything but you.”

“Yes, and you’ll pay for what you did!” exclaimed Berry. “I’ll have the
law on you for smashing my boat!”

“So Noddy has said,” came from Bob. “It’s getting to be an old story.”

“See here, you young whelps!” cried Bill in sudden anger. “I’ll show
you what it means to make fun of me!”

He made a sudden dash toward the three boys, who stood close to the
edge of the dock.

“Stand ready!” spoke Jerry in low tones. “If he tries any of his tricks
you two jump to one side and I’ll tackle him. If he gets the best of
me, you can jump in and lend a hand.”

Bill, with clenched fists, sprang at the three boys. Bob and Ned moved
a little to one side to give Jerry plenty of room. It looked as if
there was going to be trouble.

“List to the song of the whip-poor-will. He threw in the river poor old
Bill!” came in sing-song tones from the rear. There was a sudden rush.
Two figures mingled on the dock. There was a struggle, a smothered
exclamation, and then a mighty splash in the water.

“There he goes, over his toes!” cried old Pete Bumps, jumping excitedly
about.

Below the dock Bill Berry was struggling in the water. He spluttered
and threshed about and then struck out for shore.

“Quite a little swim, while the evening light grows dim,” recited Pete
solemnly.

“Good for you, Pete!” cried Ned. “You came in the nick of time!”

“Do you think so?” asked Pete anxiously. “I was afraid I’d be a little
late. However I saw he meant business so I sailed in. I couldn’t have
him fighting you boys Sunday night, so I just thought a little bath
would cool him off. I took hold of him and--.”

“He fell in, that’s all,” finished Ned. “You’re all right, Pete.”

Bill reached shore and he and Noddy slunk away.

“Well, we’re well rid of them,” observed Jerry. “I’m glad we didn’t get
to fighting, though I wouldn’t run away from it if it had to be. Pete
did us a good turn.”

“I’m always on hand to beat the band,” put in the odd character. “To
be with you boys fills me with joys. That ain’t a very good rhyme, but
I’ve been making a lot of ’em to-day, and I’m kind ’a tired,” he added.

“I guess you’d better go home and go to bed, Pete,” advised Bob. “It
will do you good.”

“Just as you say, I’m on my way,” replied the old man solemnly, as he
turned to go.

“Did anything strike you as peculiar?” asked Jerry of his chums.

“How do you mean?” asked Ned.

“I mean the way Bill Berry acted,” replied Jerry. “He seemed to fear
we had discovered something. Then there was his remark about something
blue.”

“Do you know, that occurred to me,” put in Bob. “But I didn’t like to
say anything for fear you’d laugh at me. It seemed as if he was afraid
we had discovered something.”

“That’s the way I took it,” spoke Ned. “I wonder what it could have
been.”

“Whatever it was, you can depend on it there was something crooked back
of it,” commented Jerry. “Those two never got together but they were up
to some mischief. I only hope we have no further trouble with them.”

The boys were again at the boat house the next afternoon. Ned had asked
to run the engine, and, as it was decided that all three should take
turns at managing the different parts, Bob went to the wheel while
Jerry played he was a passenger.

“Down or up?” asked Bob, as he threw in the clutch and backed the
_Dartaway_ out of the house.

“Let’s go down,” suggested Jerry. “Then we can try her up against the
current and see how she behaves.”

The boat was making good progress, the engine was purring like a
contented cat, and the boys were beginning to enjoy the run, when Bob
suddenly shut off the power and cried:

“There, I forgot all about ’em!”

“What?” asked Jerry anxiously. “There’s plenty of gasolene, I hope.”

“It’s the sandwiches,” spoke Bob in sorrowful tones. “I told our girl
to put up a lot of ’em so we could have ’em this afternoon in case we
got stuck again. Now I’ve come off without ’em. I guess I’ll go back.”

“You’ll do nothing of the kind!” exclaimed Jerry. “This is no picnic
party. We’re not going to get stuck. If we do we’ll make you wade
ashore and get the grub. You’re captain this trip. Ned and I are
passengers.”

“Oh if you’re going to act that way about it, why I’ve got nothin’ more
to say,” said Bob, in rather an aggrieved tone. “I only thought--”

“You only thought of getting something to eat,” put in Ned. “Now start
her off, Chunky, and forget you have a stomach.”

“I’ll never be able to do that,” replied Bob with a sigh, as he threw
the lever forward.

The _Dartaway_ answered promptly and spurted ahead at a good pace.
The boys had reached the next town below Cresville, running on second
speed, since the current aided them.

“Look out for that rowboat ahead,” cautioned Jerry to Bob. “They act as
if they didn’t know how to get along.”

He pointed to a boat containing two girls who seemed to be trying to
row across the stream at a particularly wide part. They were both at
the oars, but were making little progress.

One girl in the boat looked up and caught sight of the motor craft.
It seemed to give her a fright for she screamed and began pulling
frantically at the oars. Her companion was likewise affected, and the
two, in their eagerness to reach shore were rocking the small boat
violently by their endeavors.

“They’ll have an upset if they’re not careful,” said Jerry, who was
intently watching the girls.

Hardly had he spoken that one of the rowers “caught a crab.” Her oar,
dipped into the water only a little distance, had, when she pulled
strongly on it, given way suddenly. She fell backward and her companion
trying to catch her, leaned to one side.

This was too much for the frail craft. It careened far over, water ran
over the gunwale, and, an instant later the two girls were floundering
about in the water.

“To the rescue!” cried Ned, standing up in the motor boat, and
proceeding to take off his shoes and coat.




CHAPTER VIII

PLOTTING


With a turn of the steering wheel Bob sent the _Dartaway_ toward where
the girls were making frantic efforts to reach their overturned craft.

“Slow down, Chunky!” called Jerry. “You stand by and Ned and I will get
the girls. Watch out you don’t run us down. There, they’ve both sunk!
We’ll have to dive for ’em!”

Jerry had followed Ned’s example in divesting himself of his heaviest
clothing. The two boys stood on the gunwale of the motor boat, and, as
the craft slowly circled to where the girls had disappeared, guided by
Bob, Ned and Jerry leaped overboard.

As they sank beneath the surface Bob swung the _Dartaway_ in a half
curve to avoid the possibility of striking the rescuers or the girls.
He watched the surface of the water with anxious eyes as he made a big
circle about the place.

Though it seemed several minutes it was only a few seconds before
Jerry came up. In one arm he held the unconscious form of a girl, and
he struck out for the _Dartaway_. Bob headed for him, taking care to
steer so that he could come broadside on. A few seconds later Ned
appeared, but he had not found the second girl.

“I can’t--find--her--” he gasped, blowing the water from his mouth.
“I’m going--down--again.”

Jerry swam to the motor boat, and, still keeping the engine going, but
throwing out the clutch, Bob helped lift the unconscious girl over the
side.

As she was placed on the cushions she opened her eyes.

“She’s all right,” said Jerry. “I’m going back to help Ned find the
other one. Stand by, Bob.”

Plunging over the side once more Jerry struck out for the swirling
eddies that indicated where Ned had gone down again in his search.

Ducking his head under the water, and opening his eyes, Jerry peered
down on the bottom of the river to see if he could discern where the
body was. He saw it in a tangle of weeds.

At the same instant Ned caught sight of it, and made another dive,
having come to the surface to breathe. Ned was the first to reach the
girl. He brought her to the surface, though it was hard work, as she
was much heavier than her companion.

Between them Ned and Jerry swam with the girl to the motor boat, and
lifted her over the side. Then they climbed in themselves.

“Now speed her up, Bob!” cried Jerry as he donned some of his clothes.
“We’ll have to get to a doctor mighty quick with this last one. She’s
pretty far gone.”

“Shall we head straight for shore?” he asked.

“No; down to that dock,” replied Jerry, indicating one quite a distance
down the river, from which it was evident the girls had come in their
boat. There was quite a crowd on the wharf, and several small craft
were putting out toward the scene of the accident.

In a few minutes the _Dartaway_ was lying alongside the dock, and
willing hands helped the boys to lift the unconscious girl out, while
the one Jerry had rescued assisted herself.

There was a scene of confusion. Scores of people demanded to know what
had happened, when, where and all the particulars.

“Look here!” exclaimed Jerry. “You can hear all about it later. The
main thing is to get this girl to a doctor and see if we can’t save her
life.”

“That’s right!” exclaimed the proprietor of the boat pavilion. “Get out
the way there, you folks that are so anxious to know what’s going on.
Here’s a doctor now.”

A tall man, carrying a small valise, shouldered his way through the
crowd.

“Let me pass, I am a physician,” he said.

Taking off his coat he began working over the unconscious girl. He was
assisted by several women, and in a few minutes the boys, who had been
looking on, saw the maiden open her eyes.

“I guess she’s all right,” said Jerry. “Come on, let’s get out of this.
I don’t want to answer a lot of questions. We’ve got a good chance to
skip while the crowd is all in a bunch.”

The boys, after talking the matter over as the boat sped away decided
they would say nothing to their folks about the rescue.

“If we do they’ll get all excited and think an accident happens every
time we take the boat out,” said Jerry.

“Suppose they ask us what makes us so wet?” asked Ned.

“Well, we’ll not lie about it, of course,” said Jerry. “Only I hate to
have a fuss made.”

There was no need to answer questions about their wet clothes. It was
dusk when the boys got back to Cresville, and they were able to get
into their homes unobserved.

But if they hoped to have the incident go unnoticed they were doomed
to disappointment. Two days later, when they were preparing for a spin
one afternoon, Andy Rush came leaping down to the dock, waving a paper
aloft.

“So that’s how you do it!” he exclaimed. “Brave rescuers--save
lives--right on the job--dive under water--rush ashore--rush away
again--say nothing--modest--but it’s all found out!”

“What’s the matter now, Andy?” asked Jerry.

“Nothing at all--everything--lots of things--look there!” and Andy held
out a copy of the copy of the Cresville weekly.

There, on the first page, under big headlines the boys saw an account
of their rescue of the two girls. The reporter had spared no language.
It was a chance that seldom came to the little paper and it was made
the most of.

“Well if that isn’t the limit,” said Ned. “I wonder they didn’t want
personal interviews with us, and all our pictures, besides a story of
our experiences under water.”

“Say, you’re heroes all right--all right!” exclaimed Andy. “Everybody
in Cresville is talking about it. The paper is selling like hot
cakes--million copies--all talking about you--Gee Whiz! I wish I was
you fellers! You can get a job in a dime museum now!”

“Oh, dry up!” said Jerry in a good-natured voice. “Here, jump in Andy
and we’ll give you a ride. That will make you forget all about the
rescues and the hero business. Mind, if you ever refer to it again,
you’ll never go on another trip.”

“I’ll keep quiet, but it’s bound to be talked about,” said Andy.

They kept on up the river for several miles to a little summer resort,
where there was an ice cream stand. Bob proposed they go ashore and
have something to eat.

The boys found seats in a quiet corner and were soon enjoying their
refreshments. After the first plate of cream had vanished Bob proposed
more.

For some minutes past the boys had been hearing the low sound of voices
in the room back of them, where it seemed, were more chairs and tables.

At first the boys paid no attention to the conversation. But finally it
grew louder and they could hear two voices in dispute.

“If that isn’t Noddy Nixon I’ll eat my hat,” said Ned in a whisper.
“I’d know his voice anywhere. But who’s the other?”

“Let’s see what it’s all about?” suggested Bob. “It isn’t spying on
them. They are talking so loud they can’t help being heard all over.”

“Hush!” cautioned Jerry.

A second later there came to the ears of the boys these words:

“I’ve given you all the cash I can afford to. You must think I’m a
millionaire, Bill.”

“Pretty near it, I guess,” was the answer in a low rumble. “All I know
is, I’ve got to have money.”

“I tell you I’m broke,” persisted the one whom the boys had decided was
Noddy. “I might allow you a little something if you helped me out.”

“What is it now? Some more of your tricks on those motor boys?”

“Hush!” exclaimed Noddy. “Not so loud. Do you want to have the police
after us? Now I’ll tell you what I want you to do.” His voice sunk to a
whisper, but the walls were so thin that the boys could distinguish a
word here and there.

“Motor boat--do ’em brown--fix ’em for me--I’ll pay you well,” were
some expressions overheard.

“I wonder if he’s referring to us,” said Jerry. “I’d like to hear a
little more of this.”

The next words came more distinctly though the sentence was broken here
and there by intervening silences.

“Make it hot--pay you--have a good time soon,” was what came to their
ears.

“Well, it’s a good thing to know this in advance, that is if it’s us
they’re referring to,” said Ned. “We can be on the watch.”

Having finished their cream, even Bob voting he had enough, the boys
started to leave. As they walked past the room whence the voices had
come, the door opened and two figures emerged. They were Bill Berry and
Noddy Nixon.




CHAPTER IX

A TEST OF SPEED


At the sight of the motor boys, Noddy started and seemed to turn back.
Bill Berry, however, was troubled by no such timidity. He pushed
forward while his companion hung back.

“What do you fellows want here?” asked Bill in no gentle tones. “Are
you spying on us? If you are you’d better look out, that’s all!”

“We’re not ‘spying’ on you as you call it,” said Jerry. “As for being
here, I guess we have as much right to come here after a plate of cream
as you have. And we didn’t see anything blue either,” he added.

“What do you mean by that?” demanded Bill Berry in excited tones.

“Just what I said,” replied Jerry in a calm voice. “The last time you
saw us you wanted to know whether we had seen anything blue. I thought
I’d tell you now that we did not see anything of such a shade, to save
you asking a question. But we may see it any day. When we do we’ll let
you know.”

The effect of this talk seemed greatly to excite Bill. He turned first
pale, then red. He tried to speak but the words failed him.

“Look here!” he finally exclaimed. “I’d like to know what you mean. If
the Blue--”

“Keep still!” exclaimed Noddy. “Come on Bill. Don’t have anything to do
with the sneaks.”

“Look here!” burst out Ned. “You keep your names to yourself, Noddy
Nixon, and speak civilly of us or you’ll find yourself in deeper water
than the day that you fell into the river!”

Noddy’s face became red at the recollection of his humiliation at the
hands of the motor boys.

“I’ll pay you for that yet!” he exclaimed. “I’m not likely to forget
it. You’d better look out. Me and Bill--”

“Keep quiet, you lunk-head!” exclaimed Bill in a hoarse whisper. “Who’s
talking too much now? Do you want them to--” and then, fearing that he
might say too much Bill fairly dragged Noddy out of the door with him.

For a few moments the boys stood in silence. They could hear Noddy and
Bill walking down the path that led to the river, their feet crunching
the gravel.

“I wonder how they came here,” said Bob.

“Let’s watch ’em and see how they leave,” said Jerry. “We’ll get a line
on ’em then.”

Going to the door of the pavilion they saw Noddy and Bill get in a
motor boat that was tied at the edge of the float. It was a little
craft, hardly more than a rowboat with a small “kicker” gas engine in
it. Noddy got in the bow to steer, and Bill cranked up. After a number
of loud wheezes and chugs the boat started down the river.

“Little one cylindered affair,” said Bob in contemptuous tones.

“Never mind, they may make trouble enough for us with it, even if it
has only one cylinder,” put in Jerry. “It don’t move very fast, to be
sure,” as he watched the craft glide slowly down the stream, “but you
can bet Noddy has some object in having such a poor boat when he could
afford a better one. He’s up to some game, I haven’t the least doubt. I
wish I could get on to it.”

“Do you think he has any plan for making trouble for us?” asked Ned.

“Judging from what we overheard a little while ago, I would say he
has,” spoke Jerry.

“Well, I think Jerry’s right,” agreed Ned. “It seems that Bill has
something to hide. I wonder what he’s always talking about something
blue for?”

“Did you notice he always gets as far as the word ‘blue’?” asked Jerry.
“Then he stops as if he was going to mention something more, but
catches himself just in time.”

“I wonder if it’s blue diamonds, blue moon, or blue feelings,” spoke
Bob.

“Maybe it’s a blue bird,” put in Ned with a laugh. Though he spoke
off-hand the time was coming when his words were destined to be
remembered with peculiar significance.

As the _Dartaway_ was chugging along towards home on second speed the
boys heard, from behind, the exhaust of another boat, that, to judge by
the explosions, was coming along at a rapid clip.

“Hello!” exclaimed Jerry who was steering. “I didn’t know there were
any other motor boats around here but ours and Noddy’s.”

“That’s a dandy, all right,” spoke Ned, as he looked the approaching
craft over from bow to stern. “She is going some. I wonder if we could
beat her. Try, Jerry.”

Jerry was not unwilling to have a little test of speed with the
stranger craft. It came on steadily, the explosions making almost a
continuous roar. In the boat which was soon opposite the _Dartaway_,
were two men. The boat was new, and, in the gathering dusk the boys
could read the name on the bow, _Terror_.

“Rather piratical,” said Ned in a low voice.

The men in the _Terror_ glanced curiously at the _Dartaway_ as the two
craft came opposite. One of them spoke to the other in a low voice.
Then the one at the wheel adjusted the engine and the _Terror_ leaped
ahead. The two boats were now on even terms.

The two men could be seen smiling slightly as they glanced across at
the craft the boys were in. Jerry settled himself at the wheel, and
telling Ned to see to the engine, and keep it well oiled, he prepared
for the race, which had been tacitly agreed to.

For a few minutes the two boats were running so nearly alike that,
looking from one to the other, both seemed to be standing still. Then
slowly, very slowly, the _Terror_ began to creep away. Jerry opened the
throttle a trifle, and the _Dartaway_ edged up on her rival.

“They needn’t think they can leave us behind in that way,” spoke Ned.
“We haven’t begun to go yet.”

Nor, did it appear, had the _Terror_, either. From time to time the
steersman glanced at the _Dartaway_, and, as he saw her keeping even
with him he speeded up his motor a trifle. But Jerry was not to be
outdone, and he did not let the other boat gain an advantage.

“Do you think we can beat him?” asked Andy in a low tone, too impressed
by the race to talk at his usual rate.

“It’s a question of engines now,” said Jerry. “Ours is at the limit.”

So, it appeared, was the _Terror’s_. For some time the two men had been
content with merely keeping a straight course, and oiling their motor.

But now, aided either by having gotten into a place where the current
was a little swifter, or her motor making a few more explosions a
minute, the _Dartaway_ began to forge ahead. At first it was only by
the closest observation that it could be seen. But, in a little while,
the nose of the boys’ boat was three inches past the _Terror’s_. Then
this increased to ten, to twenty, until, about a mile above Cresville,
the _Dartaway_ was a length ahead of her rival.

“We’re beating ’em!” cried Ned in his exultation.

“I think so. We certainly are shooting along,” agreed Jerry.

An instant later the motor of the _Dartaway_, with a wheezing cough,
began to slow up. Then with a final explosion, as if in protest, it
stopped altogether. The craft at once lost headway, and the _Terror_
sprang forward and passed her, winning the impromptu speed contest.

“Well, if this isn’t the limit!” exclaimed Jerry. “I wonder what’s the
trouble now.”

Ned was frantically trying to get the motor to start again.

“Seems as if there was no gasolene,” he said.

Jerry quickly opened the forward tank, and thrust a measuring stick
down.

“That’s what’s the trouble!” he exclaimed. “Not a drop in the tank. We
forgot all about filling it.”

The _Terror_, after continuing on for about an eighth of a mile had
turned and was coming swiftly toward the _Dartaway_. When she was
alongside, the steersman quickly reversed his motor and the craft,
trembling like a frightened thoroughbred, came to a stop.

“In trouble?” asked the man at the wheel pleasantly. “You have a mighty
fine boat there. I hope she hasn’t broken down. You had us beaten.”

“The gasolene has given out,” said Jerry.

“Shall we give you a tow to Cresville?” the steersman went on. “That’s
as far as we’re going.”

“We’d be much obliged if you would,” spoke Jerry. “Does your boat
belong there?”

“I think it will after to-night, boys,” said the man at the motor. “How
are you? Came near beating us,” and he took off the cap that had shaded
his face.

“Why it’s Chief Dalton!” exclaimed Ned, as he and the others recognized
the head of the Cresville police force. “What in the world are you
doing here, chief?”




CHAPTER X

SAVED FROM THE FALLS


“Why, I was racing you boys,” replied the officer.

“I see you were. But I never knew you went in for motor boats,” said
Ned. “Is that your craft?”

“Not exactly, though I have an interest in her,” the chief went on.
“You see the Police Commissioners a few meetings ago decided to
purchase a motor boat. We have quite a river frontage in Cresville, and
lately there have been a number of robberies of boats and places along
the stream. So it was voted to get a swift craft in which some of our
officers could patrol the river. This is the boat, and Commissioner
Jones, here, and I, were out giving her a trial spin. We only got her
yesterday.”

“She certainly is well named,” put in Jerry.

“Well, we hope she’ll prove a ‘terror’ by nature as well as by name,”
the chief went on. “She certainly is speedy enough.”

By this time Commissioner Jones had thrown a rope to the motor boys.
It was made fast to a cleat on the _Dartaway_, and then, the _Terror_
being speeded up, the disabled craft was quickly towed down the river.
Casting off the line at the _Dartaway’s_ dock the _Terror_ shot on down
the river, the chief and commissioner calling back farewells.

“I want you to do us a favor, Andy,” said Jerry as the lads were about
to separate.

“Sure--what is it? Anything--half my kingdom--always willing to
oblige--name it!” exclaimed Andy.

“That’s the trouble, you’re too willing,” said Jerry with a smile.
“What I want is something very simple--that is it would be from any one
else. I don’t know how it will hit you.”

“What is it?” asked Andy.

“Just don’t say anything about what you heard this afternoon,” said
Jerry. “That is, I mean, about Noddy and Bill Berry. I believe they are
up to some game. If we lay low we may discover what it is. If he finds
we are talking about everything connected with him, we may not get at
anything.”

“I’ll promise,” said Andy eagerly. He was only too ready to do whatever
the other boys wanted him to, as he had hopes of more rides in the
_Dartaway_.

“That’s a bargain,” went on Jerry. “None of us will say nothing about
the occurrence.”

The next few days the boys studied hard in readiness for examinations.

“Don’t you think it rather strange that the Cresville authorities
should buy a motor boat?” asked Jerry of Ned, one evening as they were
returning from a short run down the river.

“Queer; how do you mean?”

“Well, we’ve always got along without a craft like that before. There’s
never been any river stealing to speak of. I wonder what’s in the wind.”

“Now that you speak of it, there is something out of the ordinary in
it,” agreed Ned. “I never thought of it before. What do you think it
means? Has Noddy anything to do with it?”

“I don’t believe he has; yet,” replied Jerry. “I’ll tell you something
I heard the other day. There are some extra detectives in town.”

“Are you sure?”

“Andy Rush says so,” went on Jerry. “You know he’s always hanging
around police headquarters. He wants to be a newspaper reporter some
day.”

“I would think he’d make a good one,” said Ned. “He’s always finding
out things.”

“Well, when he was down to headquarters the other afternoon,” went on
Jerry, “he says he overheard the chief tell the sergeant in charge
to tell the special detectives about some happening. This made Andy
suspicious, as he had read about the big private detective agency which
supplies officers. He says he saw a couple of strange men go into the
chief’s office a short time afterward, and stay for some time.”

“Oh, Andy’s always imagining things,” said Ned, sending the motor boat
closer in toward the shore.

“But I think he’s right this time,” spoke Jerry. “He showed me the men
he had reference to, and I think they are detectives of some kind.”

“What do you suppose it’s all about?” asked Bob, getting his mind off
something to eat for a few minutes.

“Oh, you’ve woke up, have you, Chunky?” asked Jerry. “Well,” he went
on, “there’s some connection between the police boat, the strange
detectives and robberies along the river, that’s certain. What it is
I haven’t found out. But I’m going to. It may be that Noddy and Bill
are mixed up in it, and if they are, it may concern us. Noddy seems
to have a habit of getting us into trouble along with himself and his
cronies.”

“But I haven’t heard of any robberies,” spoke Ned.

“Of course not,” said Jerry. “They’re keeping them quiet, that’s why.
But I happen to know that the grist mill, down near Tiverton falls was
entered the other night, and quite a sum of money stolen.”

“You don’t mean it!” Ned exclaimed. “Why didn’t you tell us before?”

“Because I only heard it from Andy Rush a little while ago,” Jerry
replied. “It seems he was in police headquarters and overheard the
chief talking to one of the men about it. So you see there’s something
going on in this old town after all.”

The Saturday afternoon following this trip the boys made an early start
on a journey down the river. They were in need of some lubricating
oil, and though they could have bought it in Cresville they decided
to combine business with pleasure and make a little longer jaunt than
usual.

They went to a town called Newton, about twenty miles below Cresville.
On the way they passed the mill at Tiverton falls.

“There’s the place that was robbed,” said Jerry.

“Don’t seem as if it put them out of business,” remarked Ned as the
sound of the machinery came to the ears of the boys.

“They’ve been making some improvements,” observed Jerry, who was at the
wheel. “They’ve built a new dam and flume. Rather dangerous too. If a
boat got caught in that current it would be all up with it.”

He pointed to where the mill owners had constructed a new wall to hold
back the water. It was higher than the old one, and the manner in which
the stream poured over the edge showed there was much power back of it.

The river was somewhat divided at this point. While the main stream
continued in the regular course there was an arm that shot off above a
small island, and it was this which was dammed. Just above the dam the
flume took what water was needed to run the mill. Falling over the dam
the water dashed down on some sharp rocks.

Arriving at Newton the boys spent a little time viewing the town. Then,
having purchased the oil they started back up the river.

“Hark! What’s that?” suddenly asked Bob, who was at the wheel.

“Sounds like another boat coming up the river,” said Jerry. “Maybe it’s
the _Terror_.”

“No, it’s the noise of the falls you hear,” put in Ned. “We are almost
at the grist mill.”

“Oh sure enough, so we are,” said Jerry.

Swinging around a bend in the river the boys came in sight of the dam,
over which the water was pouring in a large volume as the mill had shut
down and none was being diverted into the big flume. At the same time
the occupants of the _Dartaway_ caught sight of something that caused
them to exclaim in terror.

In the grasp of the powerful current was a small rowboat, in which were
two girls. They were struggling frantically at the oars, but, in spite
of their efforts to stem the stream, and get beyond the pull of the
waterfall they were slowly drifting nearer and nearer the edge.

“Put her over there! We’ve got to save ’em!” cried Ned to Bob. “Put her
over!”

“Wait a minute!” came from Jerry. “If you steer over there we’ll be
caught in the current too! Let me take the wheel, Bob. Ned you look
after the engine! Bob you go to the stern and stand ready to toss ’em a
line. I only hope they’ll know enough to keep hold of it or tie it to
their boat.”

Having issued his orders, Jerry hurried to the wheel, while the others
took the positions designated. Jerry at once threw the engine to full
speed ahead, and the _Dartaway_ shot forward.

“You’re not going to leave ’em, are you?” called Ned.

“I guess not!” said Jerry. “I’ve got to back down to ’em, and stand
ready to start ahead suddenly!”

“Save us!” the girls in the boat cried.

One of them had lost an oar, and the other was too frightened to do
anything, even had she the strength to stem the flow of water. Nearer
and nearer to the dam drifted the boat.

“Sit still! We’ll save you!” cried Jerry.

By this time the motor boat was some distance above the small craft.
Jerry sent it toward the left shore in a long curve. This placed the
_Dartaway_ just above the rowboat. Then he reversed the engine, and the
motor boat began to back down the stream.

“Stand ready to heave the line!” called Jerry to Bob. “Now girls!” he
went on, “you catch the rope when he throws it! Wind it around an oar
lock, and hold on to it!”

Bob sent the coils spinning through the air. They straightened out and
several twists fell over the bow of the small drifting boat.

“Catch hold!” cried Jerry.

The girl forward obeyed. Quickly she wound the coils about one of the
oar locks, and held the loose end tightly.

“Hold on!” sung out Jerry.

With a quick motion he set the clutch for the first speed forward. The
water at the stern of the _Dartaway_ was churned into foam.

“We’re drifting back!” cried Bob from the stern. “We’ll go over the
dam!”

“Here’s for full speed ahead!” cried Jerry as he threw the lever over
to the last notch, and swung the gasolene and spark handles well
forward.

The foam at the stern became thicker and whiter. The _Dartaway_
trembled from bow to rudder. The rope creaked with the strain.

“Hurrah! We’re gaining!” cried Ned. “We’re moving!”

The powerful motor boat had triumphed over the current and was pulling
the occupants in the small craft out of danger.




CHAPTER XI

BILL BERRY’S THREATS


Slowly but surely the rowboat was pulled away from the dangerous brink
of the falls. The two girls, who were pale with fear, regained their
courage, and ventured to get up from the bottom of the craft, where
they were crouched, to peer over the side.

A few minutes later the _Dartaway_ was steaming ahead at full speed,
pulling the tiny craft after it. Seeing there was no more danger Jerry
slackened the engine and steered over toward shore.

Just then a white-faced woman ran from a cottage toward the river.

“Oh!” she exclaimed. “Are my little girls drowned?”

“Not exactly,” replied Jerry with a smile, as he pointed to the two
children in the boat.

“But we near was, mommer!” cried the smaller of the two. “Gertrude and
I went out in the boat, and lost an oar, and we drifted toward the
falls. The boys come along and pulled us back or we’d got all wet.”

“I guess you’d have gotten a little more than wet,” observed Ned.

“Oh how terrible!” exclaimed the woman. “If you ever go out in a boat
alone again I’ll make your father move away from this horrible river.”

Jerry with the aid of Ned and Bob was casting off the rowboat from the
_Dartaway_, and tying it to the small dock which extended into the
river.

“Will you boys come in a little while and rest?” asked the girls’
mother. “I’m sure I can’t begin to thank you for what you did. You
saved the children’s lives.”

“I’m sure we didn’t do any more than any one would have done under the
circumstances,” said Jerry, who, like most boys hated to have a fuss
made over him or what he did. “I’m afraid we haven’t time.”

“It’s getting late, I guess we’d better be going,” added Ned, who
likewise was not fond of praise, and so, bidding the girls and their
mother good-bye the boys started away.

The search light, which was set going as soon as it was dark, gave a
brilliant path of illumination up the center of the stream, though on
either side was gloom. Suddenly the gas lamp, which burned in the bow,
went out.

“There, I meant to fill the carbide tank to-day,” said Ned, “but I
forgot all about it.”

“Never mind, we can go along just as well in the dark,” said Jerry.
“We have the side lights going and we’re not liable to meet any other
boats. Better go a little slower, though.”

Ned, accordingly slowed down, and, with scarcely a sound, so well was
the engine muffled and so smoothly did it work, the _Dartaway_ glided
along. Ned steered over toward the left bank, to be out of the way of
any boats that might be on the river.

It was getting quite damp, and a fog was obscuring the view.

“It’s a good thing there are not many motor boats on the river, or we
might run into one, or be run into,” said Ned. “I wonder if the police
boat is in commission yet.”

“I heard she’d be here next week for good,” spoke Bob.

As every one knows who has been on the water, or for that matter, out
in a fog, sounds carry much farther and with much more distinctness
under such conditions than ordinarily. It was because of this that the
boys heard, borne down the river to them, the sound of voices.

“Now I won’t take any of your threats, Bill Berry!” they heard some one
say.

With a quick but noiseless motion Ned slowed the motor down to first
speed. The craft made scarcely a sound and glided through the water
like a ghost, with one red and one green eye.

“Did you hear that?” asked Bob.

“Keep quiet!” commanded Jerry. “It sounded like Noddy’s voice. If it
was we must find out what he’s up to.”

They listened intently, and heard a confused murmur. The words borne to
them must have been exceptionally loud or else an echo carried them.
Then, again, they heard plainly.

“You needn’t try to scare me, Bill,” spoke the voice, which all three
now recognized as Noddy’s. “You’re as deep in this thing as I am, and
if you try to give me away I can do the same for you.”

Then came the low tones of some one evidently pleading with Noddy.

“Steer close up, under those overhanging trees,” said Jerry to Ned. At
the same time he threw the edge of a tarpaulin over the red and green
side lights.

Silently the _Dartaway_ glided into a regular bower under the trees. It
was dark, and made an excellent hiding place. Ned threw out the gear,
but the engine was allowed to run slowly.

In their hiding place the motor boys could hear the voices more plainly
now. They knew Noddy and Bill were plotting together over something.
From the direction of the sound of the voices Noddy and Bill appeared
to be upon a small hill overlooking the river.

“I’ve got to have that money,” Bill could be heard to say. “I need it,
and if you don’t get it for me I’ll--!”

“It won’t do a bit of good to threaten,” interrupted Noddy. “I’m not
afraid of you. You were just as bad as I was in the mine and the
kidnapping business. You don’t want to go to jail any more than I do.”

“Maybe not,” sneered Bill, “but I’ve got to have money to live. I could
do that in jail without any money, but I can’t outside, which is a
curious thing. But I need some cash and you’ve got to get it for me.”

“Where can I get any money?” asked Noddy.

“I don’t care where you get it,” said Bill in no gentle tones. “You can
beg it or borrow it--or steal it for all I care. You get some, that’s
all, or I’ll go to the police and tell them all I know.”

“You’re trying to blackmail me!” exclaimed Noddy, who, from his voice
seemed almost ready to burst into tears. “You’re threatening me.”

“It’s the only way to make you do anything,” growled Bill. “Now I tell
you what; if I don’t have some cash inside of two weeks there’s going
to be trouble for you.”

“I’m not afraid of you!” cried Noddy, stung to sudden anger by the
helplessness of his position.

“I’ll make you!” exclaimed Bill.

It sounded as though there was a scuffle between the two in the bushes.
Now and then muffled cries could be heard.

“We’d better go and help Noddy!” exclaimed Ned. “He’s no friend of
ours, but I don’t want to see that Bill Berry get the best of him.”

The three boys were so excited they forgot to maintain the caution they
had observed at first. In moving about in the boat, as the struggle
continued, the tarpaulins were knocked from the lamps and the red and
green rays glowed out.

All at once the sounds of the struggle ceased. It became very quiet.
But, through the darkness came the hoarse whisper from Noddy:

“There’s the police boat! They’re after us! Come on Bill.”




CHAPTER XII

AN ALARM OF FIRE


An instant later the motor boys could hear a crashing of bushes and
underbrush that told them Noddy and Bill were in flight.

“Shall we take after them?” asked Bob.

“What’s the use?” inquired Jerry. “We don’t want to leave our boat.
Besides, if we did catch them, which is doubtful, owing to the
darkness, what would we say?”

“We might ask them what they were talking about,” said Bob.

The retreating footsteps of Bill and Noddy were becoming fainter and
fainter. Now they ceased altogether.

“Well, I guess we may as well start for home,” said Jerry. “We can’t
gain anything by staying here.”

It was rather late when the motor boys got home after locking up the
_Dartaway_. They did not go out again until Friday afternoon when they
started for a park resort up stream.

The _Dartaway_ was running to perfection, having been overhauled by the
boys, the engine well oiled and some adjustments made. The motor was
“finding itself” and was working more smoothly with every revolution.
Obedient to helm and throttle the craft went spinning up the stream
like some big river horse.

As the boys in the boat swung around a sharp bend, the turn being
hidden by thick trees, they almost ran into a small schooner that was
beating up against the wind.

“Look out!” cried Ned to Bob, who was steering.

Bob swung the wheel well around and started to reverse the engine, when
Jerry sprang forward from the stern, where he had been sitting.

“Keep on, full speed ahead!” he called. “It’s the only way to avoid
hitting him!”

At the same time he moved the gasolene and sparking levers forward,
and, as the _Dartaway_ leaped ahead under the quickening impulse, Jerry
steered to the left of the schooner.

His quick action saved a collision. As it was, the motor boat barely
grazed the side of the other craft, and then shot out into the middle
of the stream.

“What’s the matter with you fresh kids?” called a voice from the
schooner, and the boys looked over to see a ragged man shaking his fist
at them.

“I’ll have the law on you!” the skipper went on. “You’ve got no right
to make a turn like that at full speed without blowing a whistle.”

“I guess he’s got us right,” spoke Jerry in low tones. “It’s our fault.
Sailing vessels have the right of way.”

The man appeared to be all alone on the craft for he remained at the
wheel, and no one else came on deck.

“You’d ought to have kept a little more in shore,” said Jerry.
“Unloaded vessels are supposed to at this point as it’s deeper farther
out, and the loaded ones take that channel.”

“I don’t care a hang about the channel!” cried the man. “You nearly run
me down, and you didn’t blow any warning. If I catch you at it again
I’ll sink your tin-pan of a boat if I get a chance.”

“You’ll not get the chance!” fired back Ned, turning to look at the
schooner which was disappearing around the bend. As he did so the boy
gave a cry of alarm.

“What’s the matter?” asked Jerry.

“Look at the stern of that boat!” cried Ned.

Bob and Jerry looked. Under the overhanging ornamental work was the
name:

BLUEBIRD

“Nothing remarkable about that,” said Bob. “It could just as well have
been redbird, or yellowbird or blackbird.”

“I see what you mean,” put in Jerry excitedly. “It may have been the
‘blue’ thing that Bill Berry referred to when he quarreled with us.”

“I’m sure it is,” said Ned. “There’s something queer going on along
this river, and we’ll find it out sooner or later.”

They ran along for several miles, and were approaching a small village
called Westville, when, as they came around a bend that hid from sight
a straight stretch of water which led past the town, they heard shouts
of excitement.

“I wonder what we’ve run into now,” said Jerry.

“Looks like a fire,” said Bob.

“It is a fire!” exclaimed Ned. “See, that barn upon the hill is all
ablaze!”

Looking to where he pointed Bob and Jerry saw the stable structure,
near a handsome country residence was spouting flames. About it a
crowd was gathered, and the boys could see men leading out horses and
running out wagons, carriages and farm machinery.

“I wonder where the fire department is,” said Jerry. “I heard they had
a cracker-jack one here.”

“There they come!” cried Ned pointing to where a crowd of men and boys
could be seen hurrying down a hill over which led the road into the
village. In the midst of the throng was some sort of machine which was
being pulled by long ropes.

“It’s an old hand engine!” cried Bob. “I thought they had a steamer
here.”

“Come on; let’s go up and see it work!” cried Jerry.

The motor boat was run close to the bank, and, having been tied to an
overhanging tree the boys raced up the slope toward the burning barn.

By this time the hand engine had arrived. It was one of the
old-fashioned kind. Two long handles worked a pump mounted on a tank.
Into this tank water had to be poured by pails, and from the bottom ran
two lines of hose connected to the pumps. The hose was carried on a
separate reel. In a few minutes the volunteer firemen, having gotten in
each other’s way as many times as was possible, had the hose attached.
One little man with a bald head and a fuzz of white whiskers on his
chin was giving all sorts of orders.

Then two lines of men and boys were formed, each person with a bucket
in hand, the files leading to a small brook which ran near the barn.
From one to another the buckets were passed, going down empty on one
side and going along filled on the other. As fast as possible the pails
were emptied into the tank.

The men at the handles or “brakes” as they were called were pumping
away for dear life, and soon a feeble stream came from one hose nozzle.

“Hurrah!” cried the crowd, and half a score of willing hands grabbed
the line and started toward the burning barn with it. A little later,
the pump having gotten in its stride, so to speak, sent a stream from
the other hose.

Again there was a shout of approval, and the two streams were soon
playing on the flames. But the fire had gained too much headway to
succumb to anything short of the efforts of a regular department. The
blaze mounted higher and higher.

“The house is on fire! The house is on fire!” a score of voices yelled.

Sure enough, some sparks from the barn had fallen on the shingled roof
of the residence and there were several tiny spurts of flame.

“Let the barn go, boys!” called the chief. “Let’s save the house.”

Willing hands dragged the clumsy machine nearer the residence while the
men at the nozzles ran back, and prepared to squirt water on the roof.
Once more the buckets passed along the line.

Clank! Clank! went the handles.

“What’s the matter?” cried the chief. “There’s no water coming from the
hose!”

The nozzle-men had climbed up on two ladders which were hastily reared
against the side of the house. They turned the hose toward the spurts
of flame, but no water came. The trouble was the pump was not powerful
enough to force the fluid to so great a height.

“Pump! Pump!” cried the chief.

The men at the handles redoubled their efforts. For a minute or so
a feeble stream trickled from the nozzles. Then, with a cough and a
wheeze the pump gave out. It had broken under the unusual pressure, not
being in the best of repair at any time.

“What are we going to do?” cried the chief. “The house will go!”

“Form a chain gang!” cried the owner of the residence. “Have the men
stand in line from the brook to the ladder and pass the buckets along
and up to the roof!”

“Good idea!” yelled the chief. “Hurry men!”

It was easy to plan but hard to put into operation. The buckets were
full when they left the hands of the men nearest the stream, but when
they got to those on the roof there was barely a quarter pail-full of
the fluid left, so much had spilled out.

The volunteer fire fighters did the best with what they had, but the
flames were gaining on them. The roof was afire in a dozen places. As
fast as one spot was put out another would ignite.

Jerry ran to the disabled engine. He seemed to be examining the hose.
Then he hurried back to the chief.

“How many feet of hose have you?” he asked of that excited official.

“About four hundred. But don’t bother me! What good is hose when you
haven’t a pump? Look out the way!”

“I’ll tell you what good it is!” exclaimed Jerry. “Uncouple it from
the engine and run it down to our boat!” and he pointed to where the
_Dartaway_ was tied at the shore.




CHAPTER XIII

THE QUEER TRAMP


“What good will that do?” cried the chief. “Haven’t I got troubles
enough without you bothering me? This whole place is going up in smoke!”

“No it won’t if you do as I say,” insisted Jerry. “Have your men run
that hose down to our boat!”

“Have you got a force pump there?” demanded the chief halting in his
intention of shouting some new order through his trumpet.

“That’s what we have, and a powerful one too,” cried Jerry.

“Good!” exclaimed the chief. “Here boys! Run the line down to the motor
boat!”

Wondering whether their chief had taken leave of his senses the men
obeyed. A curious crowd gathered to see what was going on. Some even
deserted the bucket brigade lines.

“Don’t leave my house to burn up!” cried the distracted owner.

“Do you think you can attach the hose to the engine?” asked Bob, as he
ran along beside Jerry.

“Not to the engine but to the pump; the auxiliary pump,” said Jerry. “I
guess you forgot we have a regular force pump which is worked by the
engine. Not the one that pumps up water to cool the cylinders, but the
one in the stern that is intended for a hose to be attached to. It’s
for use in case the boat gets afire, or to wash it off when it’s dirty.
It’s a fine pump, double acting, but we never had occasion to use it,
and we haven’t any hose for it. I measured the fire hose, and it will
just fit on the pump nozzle.”

By this time the men dragging the hose were at the _Dartaway_. They
stared in wonder at the trim craft, for it was the first time many of
them had ever seen a motor boat.

“Fasten the line on there!” cried Jerry showing the men where the pump
was. “I’ll start the engine!”

He threw out the gear, and started the motor, which, running free, soon
attained a terrific speed. Then Jerry threw in the clutch connecting
with the pump. In an instant the machine began to suck up water from
the river.

A few seconds later there came a shout from the other end of the hose,
where some men were holding it ready to play a stream on the roof,
which was now blazing furiously.

“By Hook! You’ve done the trick!” exclaimed the chief. “I didn’t think
your little machine would force water so far.”

The chief ran back to direct his men, while quite a crowd stayed to
watch the motor boys in their unexpected role of firemen.

In a few minutes the firemen had the blaze under control. It had just
begun to eat through the shingles, but, so well did the volunteers play
the water on, and, thanks to the _Dartaway’s_ pump, so much was there
of the fluid, that the fire soon got discouraged and, save for a few
little tongues of flame, it was out five minutes later.

The house was saved, but the barn was a total loss. Seeing that there
was no further need of a stream on the roof, the chief directed the men
to play on the burning embers of the stable, which had collapsed into a
huge bon-fire.

“Well, I reckon I can call off my men now,” said the chief some time
later, when there was only a little smoke to show where the barn had
stood. “I guess the danger’s over. One of you men take a look upon the
house roof to see there are no sparks left.”

A volunteer fireman scrambled up and reported that the roof-fire was
out completely.

“Then we’ll pull up and go home,” went on the chief. “I’m sure we’re
much obliged to you boys. I don’t know what we’d ’a done only for you.”

“That’s all right,” spoke Jerry. “Glad we happened along in time to be
of service.”

The hose was uncoupled from the boat pump, and coiled on the reel,
while the hand engine was dragged out into the road in preparation for
being taken back to quarters.

The motor boys prepared to continue on their trip. Just as Jerry was
adjusting the engine in readiness to start off, a man came running down
the bank to the river.

“Hi; you boys!” he called.

“Well, what is it; more fire?” asked Ned.

“No, but Mr. Dudley wants to know if you won’t come up and stay to
supper. He wants to thank you, and he’s asked the other fire department
also.”

“The other fire department, eh?” remarked Jerry in a low voice. “They
must count us as one. Shall we go up, boys?”

“If you leave it to me I say yes every time,” put in Bob.

“Oh we knew that,” said Jerry. “What do you say, Ned?”

“Oh I could toy with a bit of food if it isn’t too heavy,” said Ned
with a smile.

“Tell Mr. Dudley we’re much obliged to him, and we’ll be right up,”
said Jerry, and the man, who seemed to be a helper about the place, ran
back to the house.

Mrs. Dudley and several of the servants had set a table in the big
dining room. The members of the volunteer fire department were standing
awkwardly around discussing the events of the last few hours, and Mr.
Dudley was going about from one to the other thanking them for what
they had done.

“Here comes the real heroes of the day!” cried the fire chief as the
boys entered. “They are the ones who jumped right into the breach and
pulled us out of the hole.”

“That’s so!” cried Mr. Dudley, hurrying over and shaking hands with the
boys. “I don’t know your names yet,” he went on, “but I’m a thousand
times obliged to you.”

Jerry introduced himself and his comrades, and soon every one was at
his ease, the volunteers firing question after question at Bob, Ned and
Jerry as to how their “machine” worked.

“Now, never mind the fire, but sit down and eat,” cried Mr. Dudley.
“I’m sure you’re hungry and that you all deserve better than we have
here. You must make allowances for the meal. It was gotten ready in a
hurry, and we’re a little upset.”

“I should think you would be,” said the chief. “Good land, we ain’t had
as much excitement as this, no sir, not in ten years.”

The meal was a good one in spite of the adverse circumstances under
which it was prepared, and the boys and every one else ate heartily.

During a lull in the serving of the victuals, the chief arose at his
place.

“Members of the Towanda Fire Department,” he said, “I have a motion to
make. I know this ain’t a regular meeting, but I ask for a suspension
of the rules.”

“Hurrah! You’re all right! Go ahead chief! Make a dozen motions if
you want to!” were some of the cries that greeted the head of the
volunteers.

“Then I move you that we elect these three boys, who helped us so well
to-day, honorary members of our department!” exclaimed the chief.

“Second the motion!” cried every member of the volunteers.

“I guess there’s no use to take a vote on that proposition,” the chief
went on. “You’re elected unanimously!”

“Thank you, very much,” said Jerry, speaking for himself and his chums.

There was a cheer for the boys, and congratulations on every side. Mrs.
Dudley came up, shook hands with the boys, and with tears in her eyes
thanked them for their aid in saving her home.

“I don’t know what I would have done if it had burned down,” she said.
“I’ve lived here so long I don’t believe I ever could live in a new
place. I must write and tell you boys’ mothers what you did for me.”

As soon as they could, the boys made an excuse for leaving. Shaking
hands with their host and hostess, they went down to the motor boat,
followed by about half the members of the fire department. Amid cheers
from the men the boys started off.

“I guess we’d better cut out the trip to the park,” said Jerry. “How
about going straight home?”

“Suits me,” came from Ned and Bob.

Accordingly, after the side lamps and the search lantern had been
lighted, the _Dartaway_ was swung down the river.

Suddenly from the gloom in front of them, there sounded a loud crash.
Then a bumping noise, followed by confused shouts.

“Trouble of some kind!” exclaimed Jerry. He swung the search lamp in
the direction from which the noise had come. In the white blinding
glare of the gas lamp the boys saw the outlines of a schooner,
partially hidden behind some big black object.

“That’s the _Bluebird_!” exclaimed Ned.

“And something has run into her!” cried Jerry. “I wonder what it is.
Put us over that way, Ned.”

Ned shifted the wheel. As the _Dartaway_ came nearer, and the black
object was illuminated more by the search lamp, the boys could see that
it was a barge loaded with hay which had drifted upon the schooner.

“Help! Help! Save me! The schooner is sinking!” cried a voice from the
darkness.

“You’d better jump!” another voice answered. “I can’t pull the barge
back!”

The boys were now near enough to see what was happening. The barge
was broadside on to the current. It was so big that the force of the
river was bearing it hard against the side of the schooner, which was
careening badly.

“Is there anyone on the barge?” called Jerry.

“Yes!” came back the answer. “Can you throw me a line and pull me back?
I don’t want to sink the vessel!”

“Stand by to catch!” cried Jerry.

He stood up in the bow and cast a line to a dark figure that ran out to
the end of the barge, nearest the motor boat. The man skillfully caught
the line, and fastened it to a cleat.

Then, under Jerry’s direction, Ned swung the _Dartaway_ about in a big
circle, taking care not to foul the tow line. The rope was fastened to
the stern of the motor boat, and, when the latter was pointed up stream
it tautened suddenly.

Ned put the engine at full speed, and slowly, very slowly, for the
weight was considerable, the hay barge was pulled away from the
schooner. The latter, relieved of the pressure, began to right.

“That’s the stuff!” cried the man on the barge. He was in the full
glare of the search lamp, which Jerry had reversed to play on the
barge, and the boys saw that he was a tramp. His clothes hung in rags
about him, and his face looked as if it had not felt a razor in months.

“Pull her up the river a way and tie her to the bank, if you will,”
the tramp said, stepping out of the glare of the light suddenly. “She
drifted down stream with me,” he went on.

“Who does it belong to?” asked Jerry.

There was no answer. Then, all at once, there came a splash in the
water.

“Some one has fallen overboard!” cried Bob.

Jerry flashed the light down on the surface of the river. In the white
glare the tramp could be seen striking out for shore. He was swimming
well, and seemed in no need of assistance so Jerry did not stop the
towing of the barge to put over to him.

“Well of all the queer tramps he’s the limit,” said Bob. “He don’t seem
to mind getting a bath. Wonder how he came to fall in.”

“He didn’t fall in, he jumped,” said Jerry. “There’s something queer
behind this.”




CHAPTER XIV

CAMPING OUT


“Hurry up, run the barge ashore and let’s see what he’s up to,”
suggested Ned.

“All right,” agreed Jerry. “We might as well see this thing through
while we’re at it.”

The barge, with its load of hay was no light weight to tow, but the
boys were satisfied to get it out of the way of the schooner. They
steered over toward the bank, and, as Ned slowed up the engine, Jerry
and Bob leaped ashore and tied the line to a tree.

“We can come and get the rope to-morrow,” said Jerry. “Now to find our
queer tramp.”

The hay barge was now securely tied, and, as the boys could see in the
light of the search lantern, the schooner had righted. There seemed to
be no movement on board, and the boys concluded that whoever had been
afraid of losing his life in the accident had quieted down.

“Everybody listen,” said Jerry. “I want to see if we can hear the tramp
moving on shore.”

The engine had been stopped and there was no sound to disturb the
stillness of the night. Suddenly, from the bush that lined the bank of
the river, there came a crackling that betokened some person was moving
through them.

“Maybe this is our tramp,” said Bob.

With a quick movement Ned, who was standing in the bow of the boat,
turned the search light on shore. As he did so there emerged from the
underbrush a figure that was dripping with water. One glance showed the
boys it was the tramp of the hay barge.

“Oh!” exclaimed the tramp. “You’re here, are you?”

“Just about,” said Jerry. “Here’s your load of hay,” and he motioned to
the barge tied to the bank.

“Oh that’s not mine,” the tramp said pleasantly. “You see the way it
was I went to sleep on that barge. It was tied to the bank, some where
along here. The first thing I knew there was a collision and I heard
some one on the schooner shouting that I was sinking him.”

“I guess you came pretty near it,” put in Ned.

“Yes; well maybe I did, but it wasn’t my fault. The barge must have
drifted down stream while I was asleep. Then you boys came along in
the nick of time, and--well you know the rest.”

“Are you stopping around here?” asked Jerry.

“Well, not so’s you could notice it,” the tramp replied. “I’m a sort of
wandering minstrel you might say, here to-day and gone to-morrow.”

“Can we do anything for you?” asked Jerry, taking pity on the man’s
rather forlorn appearance. “Give you a ride down to the town, or
anything like that?”

“No, thanks just the same,” replied the tramp. “It’s going to be a warm
night, and my clothes will soon dry. Besides I’m a nature lover and a
student of the stars. I like to sleep out of doors, so I’ll just curl
up here under a bush and sleep the sleep of the just. In the morning I
will hie me on my way again, fair sirs.”

“Then we can’t help you?” asked Ned, who, with the other boys, was
somewhat puzzled by the man’s queer manner and rather high-flown talk.

“Well, to tell you the truth the only thing you could do for me would
be to hand over a chicken sandwich or two,” the tramp said. “And I
don’t suppose you carry such luxuries with you on your cruises.”

“Maybe you wouldn’t mind roast beef, corned beef and cheese sandwiches,”
suggested Bob.

“Don’t make fun of him,” spoke Jerry in a low voice.

“I’m not,” replied Chunky. “I’ve got some here.”

He fumbled in a side locker of the boat and drew out a bulky package.
Then he put his hand in again and brought forth a bottle of ginger ale.

“Where in the world did you get that stuff?” asked Ned.

“I saved it from the dinner at Mr. Dudley’s,” answered Bob.

“Well, you are the limit!” exclaimed Jerry, while Ned joined in the
laugh at Chunky.

“Here you go,” said Bob to the tramp, extending some of the food and a
bottle of ginger ale. “It will last until you can get something more.”

“You are too generous,” spoke the tramp, but though his tone was
bantering as his previous speech had been, the boys could see he was in
earnest.

He came close to the boat and accepted the sandwiches and bottle which
Bob held out. Then, making his way up the bank again, he was soon lost
to sight in the shadows, while he called back a friendly “good-night.”

“I guess we can go home now,” spoke Jerry. “We’ve had adventures enough
for one night.”

“Yes, and if I’m not mistaken this one will lead to others,” Ned put in.

“What do you mean?” asked Jerry, with sudden interest.

“Did you notice the tramp’s face?”

“Not particularly; why?”

“Well, you remember how much he looked as if he needed a shave when he
came in the glare of the light as he stood on the barge?”

“I sure do.”

“Well, he didn’t look so when he took the sandwiches from Bob, did he?”

“No, he didn’t,” put in Bob. “He was as clean as if he’d just been to
the barber’s.”

“You don’t s’pose he got shaved in the woods, after his bath, do you?”
asked Ned.

“You mean we must have been mistaken in thinking he needed one?” asked
Jerry.

“No, I mean his appearance changed after he fell or jumped into the
water. His ‘whiskers’ came off.”

“Then he was disguised!” exclaimed Jerry.

“That’s what I believe,” Ned replied. “And what with a disguised tramp
on a hay barge, a mysterious schooner named _Bluebird_, and Bill
Berry’s curious reference to something ‘blue’ I shouldn’t wonder but
what there was something strange going on around these parts. And
we’re liable to get mixed up in it at any time.”

“Not any more to-night, if you please,” spoke Jerry. “I’m dead tired,
and I want to go to bed. If there are going to be any more adventures
I’m going to duck.”

“Well, I don’t s’pose we can find out anything more to-night,” admitted
Ned. “So let’s head for home.” And they did.

The next day the boys made a trip up the river to where they had tied
the hay barge. They found several men on the craft, discussing how it
had happened the boat had moved from the place where they had tied it.
The boys moored their craft and went on the barge to get their rope.

“So this is your tow line, eh?” asked a man who seemed to be in charge
of the barge.

“That’s what,” replied Jerry, and he related what happened the night
previous.

“Wa’al, I might have knowed suthin’ would break loose if I let th’
men have a night off,” the farmer, for such he was, went on. “We was
bringin’ this load of fodder down stream, an’ we had t’ tie up as it
was gittin’ dusk. Some of th’ boys wanted t’ go off t’ town t’ a dance,
an’ I let ’em, as we don’t have many amusements on th’ farm. When we
come back we couldn’t find th’ boat, an’ we thought some one had stole
her. We went back t’ town an’ stayed all night an’ come trampin’ down
t’ th’ river this mornin’. Lucky we found th’ craft, an’ the hay not
stole. I’m sure I’m much obliged t’ you boys.”

“I’m sure you’re welcome,” replied Jerry, not saying anything about the
tramp, who, it appeared, had had no hand in the boat drifting away.

Securing their line the boys went back to their boat.

“Where shall we go?” asked Ned. “I’d like to get off in the woods
somewhere and camp out. I wish vacation was here and we could take our
cruise.”

“Let’s take a little one now,” suggested Jerry. “We don’t need to
bother with a tent. We can go off somewhere, and stay over Sunday, and
sleep on board.”

Things were soon in readiness and the start was made about six o’clock
that evening. They went some miles, and when ten o’clock came the boys
lighted the gasolene stove and made coffee, for the night was quite
chilly. They set the small table amidships, and, with the food they had
brought along, they made a good meal. They were so tired, with the
good healthy exhaustion of exercise in the open air, that it was not
long after this before they were all sound asleep.

It must have been past midnight when Jerry, who was sleeping forward,
was awakened by feeling the boat careen to one side.

“What’s the matter?” he cried, sitting up on the bunk.




CHAPTER XV

THE MOTOR BOAT MISSING


There was no sound save the ripple of water past the side of the craft,
and the distant gurgle where the stream flowed over a stony place that
formed miniature rapids.

“Who’s there?” asked Jerry again.

This time he heard a splash in the water as if a big fish was moving
about.

Jerry knew the river did not boast of sufficiently large finny
specimens to careen a boat the size of the _Dartaway_. Nevertheless
something had shifted her.

Jerry was wide awake now. He stepped out into the enclosed space
between the bunks that formed a sort of cabin. As he did so he felt the
boat rock again; this time so violently as to almost cause him to lose
his balance.

To avoid falling Jerry thrust out his hand, and it hit Bob, who was
sleeping on the other side of the boat.

“All right! All right! I’m goin’ to get right up!” exclaimed Bob,
turning over but evincing no other desire to do as he said he would.
He evidently imagined himself in his bed at home, and with his father
calling him to get up, for Bob was no light slumberer.

“What’s the matter?” asked Ned, sitting up suddenly. He was easily
awakened, and the sound of Bob’s voice, with the movement of Jerry
served to arouse him. “What’s the matter?” he repeated. “Are they after
us? Is Noddy up to his old tricks?”

“I don’t know what’s the matter,” replied Jerry in a low voice. “I was
awakened by feeling the boat rock, and I got up to see what the trouble
was. I haven’t found out yet.”

“Maybe we’re adrift,” suggested Ned. “We may have swung down stream and
hit the bank.”

Jerry reached for a swinging lantern, and, parting the canvas side
awnings, held the light over the rail. By the gleam the boys could see
that they were still tied to the shore trees by bow and stern lines.

“The boat hasn’t drifted,” said Jerry. “Something moved it. I heard a
noise in the water as if there was a big fish, but who ever heard of
whales or sharks in the river, and it must have been something as big
as that to cause us to careen so.”

“Maybe it was a log that hit us,” suggested Ned.

“I think not; I would know the bump of a log,” said Jerry. “Hark!
What’s that?”

Both boys listened intently. Off toward the farther bank could be heard
a faint splashing, as if a large body was moving in the water.

“Light the search lantern, and we’ll throw a beam over in that
direction,” said Ned. Jerry crept forward and soon had the big
illuminator kindled. Then he suddenly turned the beams full on in the
direction of the splashing sound.

For a moment nothing could be distinguished save the green bank that
bordered the river. Then, as Jerry swung the search light in a half
circle he “picked up” a dark figure that was crawling up the sloping
shore.

“It’s a man!” exclaimed Ned. “It’s a man with ragged clothes on! I’ll
bet it’s the same tramp that was on the hay barge!”

Jerry was gazing intently through the opened canvas sides of the boat
at the figure. Sure enough it was that of a man, and, he seemed to have
just swam across the river. He climbed the bank, and, turning to take
a look at the motor boat, placed himself full in the glare of the gas
lamp.

“It’s our queer tramp all right!” exclaimed Jerry. “I wonder if it was
he who moved the boat.”

“Must have been,” decided Ned, after a moment’s thought.

The next instant the figure, turning as if to take a last look at the
boat, plunged into the underbrush and was lost to view.

The morning came without further adventures and after breakfast they
walked for a mile or more through the woods, and emerged into a big
field. There were no houses in sight and the boys did not know what
settlement they might be near, for they were about twenty miles from
home, in a part of the country they seldom visited.

“Looks like some sort of habitation over there,” said Bob, pointing to
the left.

“I don’t see anything,” replied Jerry. “Where do you see a house?”

“I don’t see any house, but I see smoke,” replied Bob. “Where there’s
smoke there’s fire, and where there’s fire there’s sure to be some one
living.”

As they came nearer to whence the smoke arose they could see half
hidden in the bushes a sort of log cabin. It was almost in ruins, and
the one window was devoid of glass.

In front of the hut there smouldered the remains of a fire, and, from
some old pots and pans lying about, as well as odds and ends of food
scattered around, it was evident that some one had been dining in rough
and ready fashion.

“Looks like a camping-out party had been here,” said Jerry. “They
weren’t very particular where they stayed though. That hut seems to
have seen its best days.”

“More like it’s a tramps’ shack,” observed Ned. “Maybe our friend of
the hay barge hangs out here.”

The boys went closer to the fire. There were chickens’ feathers and
bones on the ground.

“They lived high, at any rate,” said Bob. “I wouldn’t mind a bit of
broiled fowl myself.”

“Whoever was here left their knife behind,” said Bob, stooping over and
picking up an expensive one. “Doesn’t look like the kind tramps usually
carry.” He turned it over in his hand, and uttered an exclamation.

“Cut yourself?” asked Jerry.

“Look there!” cried Bob, pointing to the silver plate on one side of
the handle. On it was carved: “N. Nixon.”

“Noddy’s knife!” came from Ned. “I wonder what he could have been doing
here.”

“It’s like a good many other things connected with Noddy,” said Jerry.
“No telling what he’s up to until it’s too late.”

“Shall we take it along or leave it?” asked Bob.

“Better take it,” suggested Jerry. “It might come in handy for evidence
some time, and if we leave it some one might come along and steal it.
Put it in your pocket, Chunky.”

Strolling leisurely they retraced their steps, and soon were on the
rude path they had followed in coming from the river.

Jerry was in the lead. When he came to the bank of the stream he
suddenly stopped.

“What’s the matter? Snake?” called out Ned.

“We must have come the wrong road,” said Jerry. “The boat isn’t here.”

The other boys hurried forward and stood beside him. There was no sign
of the _Dartaway_.

“That’s queer,” said Bob. “I thought we were on the right path coming
back. It was just like the one we went over on.”

“It was the same,” insisted Ned. “There’s where the _Dartaway_ was tied
up. I know that willow tree. See, I left my sweater on it, and it’s
there yet,” and he pointed to where the red garment fluttered in the
wind.

“Then where’s the boat?” asked Jerry. “Has it floated away?”

“It couldn’t have,” insisted Ned. “It was tied too securely.”

“Then she’s been stolen!” exclaimed Jerry, and he ran down to the edge
of the river, the others following.

There was no doubt about it, the _Dartaway_ was gone. There was not a
sign of the craft up stream or down.

“Some one’s been here all right,” said Jerry. “See those are not our
tracks,” and he pointed to the soft mud in which were several prints of
large feet which had worn hob-nailed shoes. In the middle of the sole
was a design of an arrow, which the maker of the shoes had put on them
in big nails, and this device was plainly visible in the soil.

“Well, this is tough luck!” exclaimed Bob. “I’d like to find the man
with the arrow shoes.”

“I’d rather find the boat,” said Jerry in a dejected voice. “I wonder
what in the world we’re going to do,” and he sat down on the grassy
bank. The others, looking sadly at where their beloved boat had been
moored, took places beside Jerry.




CHAPTER XVI

THE SEARCH


For a while no one felt like speaking. The shock was too much for them.
They could hardly realize that their craft was gone. Finally Jerry
spoke.

“We’ve got to find her!” he exclaimed. “She’s somewhere on the river,
up or down, and we’ve got to go after her. She can’t have been taken
very far, for we’ve not been gone more than three hours.”

“If she was run at full speed she could get a good way off in that
time,” observed Bob.

“Well, what’s to be done?” asked Ned.

“I think the best plan will be to start up or down the river,” said
Jerry. “Chances are who ever took the boat went up, as they wouldn’t
risk cruising past Cresville with it. So we’ll start up I think.”

“You mean walk?” asked Bob who was not inclined to any exertion when he
could help it.

“Well I don’t see any one coming along with a launch or a water
automobile, Chunky,” said Jerry. “I guess we’ll have to walk, a way at
any rate. We’ll inquire of every one who lives along the river if they
have seen the boat. We may get a line on her that way. So let’s start.”

“I wish we’d taken some of the grub out of her before we went away,”
said Bob with a sigh.

“If they’ll give us back the boat they can have all the victuals and
welcome,” spoke Ned.

“I guess you’re not as hungry as I am,” said Bob.

“Well, there’s no use worrying over that part of it,” Jerry said.
“We’ll start out. Maybe we can find a hotel or a farm house where we
can buy some lunch.”

Tired and discouraged, hungry and thirsty, the boys started off to
tramp up along the river bank. It was in strange contrast to the manner
in which they had arrived the evening before.

Their course lay partly through meadow land and partly through the
woods, for the river was winding in its course. The sun beamed down hot
and the journey was anything but a pleasant one. But the boys with grim
determination did not mind the discomforts. They wanted to find their
boat and they were willing to make any sacrifices to get her.

They had walked for an hour without seeing a sign of habitation or
meeting a person. But, about noon, as they came around a sharp turn,
where the river flowed between two rather high hills, they spied a farm
house, which, from the extent of land surrounding it, and the number of
out buildings seemed to belong to a man of means.

“Well, that looks as if there was something to eat there, at any rate,”
spoke Bob. “Hurry up, fellows, I’m nearly starved. Have any of you got
any money? I’m broke.”

Ned had only a little change, but, fortunately Jerry had several bills
in his pocket.

“We don’t look very presentable to go up to a man’s house on Sunday,”
said Ned. “But beggars can’t be choosers.”

The boys had on old suits which they donned as they expected to tramp
through the woods. Their good clothes were on the boat. Then too, the
jaunt along the river had not improved their appearance as they were
rather begrimed.

“Let’s scrub up a bit before we make an appeal for help,” suggested Ned.

“Good idea,” agreed Bob, and all three went down to the edge of the
river. They washed the mud off their shoes, scrubbed their faces and
hands, drying them on their pocket handkerchiefs, to the detriment
of the linen, and then they brushed the dirt and cobwebs from their
clothes with bunches of grass.

“There!” exclaimed Jerry when the toilets were completed. “We’re not
exactly dressed for a party, but I guess it’s some better than we were.”

They approached the farm house from the front. Bob had suggested going
in the back way, but Ned insisted they were not tramps, but travelers
willing and able to pay for a meal, so it was decided to approach in
style.

Jerry rang the bell. In a little while an aged colored man answered. He
was all smiles as he came along, but, as he opened the glass paneled
portal the boys could see a frown appear on his face.

“Marse Johnson done give p’ticklar orders that all tramps an’ beggars
done got t’ go t’ th’ back part this establishment!” said the negro.

“Well, what’s that got to do with us?” asked Jerry. “Tell Mr. Johnson
we wish to see him at once.”

“Well I mus’ say you’s th’ most imperterlitest--”

“Never mind!” exclaimed Jerry. “Just tell Mr. Johnson that we are from
Cresville. He’ll understand.”

The colored man hesitated a moment. Clearly he was puzzled by Jerry’s
confident manner.

“Sit down,” said Jerry to Bob and Ned, waving his hand toward some
porch chairs.

That seemed to settle it in the negro’s mind. Any one who assumed so
much must be an expected guest he reasoned even though the clothing of
the boys betokened them to be unlike the usual run of visitors.

Somewhat apprehensive of what their reception might be the boys waited.
They heard the footsteps of the colored man go echoing down the hall.
The big dog, seemingly satisfied that all was right, had resumed his
sleep.

The boys heard someone coming along the gravel on the walk at the side
of the porch. They looked up, expecting to see the master of the house
approaching. They beheld a little man with a round shining bald head,
and a fuzz of white whiskers around his chin. Though long past middle
age, he came along with sprightly steps. No sooner had he caught sight
of the boys than his walk became a run, and he fairly bounded up on the
porch.

“Well of all things!” he exclaimed. “Who would have thought to see you
here. My but I’m glad to see you. Welcome, fellow fire-fighters!”

The boys rose from their chairs, rather puzzled over the little man’s
words and actions. He began shaking hands with them, though, as Bob
afterward confessed he was doubtful about engaging in the operation, as
he thought the man was a mild lunatic.

“Well, well, but I am glad to see you!” the little man went on. “I’m
awfully glad you came. You’re just in time for dinner. Come right in.”

“Oh, friends of yours, Henry?” asked a voice from the doorway, and the
boys turned to see a tall stately gentleman coming out on the porch.
“You young gentlemen must excuse me,” the tall man went on. “I did
not understand Sambo’s message. He said, but you must pardon me for
repeating it, but he said there were some tramps out here. But I did
not dream there were some old friends of Cousin Henry’s. I am very
pleased to meet you.”

All of which was more and more puzzling to the boys.

“Friends of mine! I should rather say they were!” exclaimed the little
man. “These young gentlemen,” he went on, “are honorary members of the
Towanda Fire Department, of which I am the only living charter member!”
and he threw back his shoulders proudly.

“That’s what they are,” he went on. “You should have seen them and
their steam boat at the Dudley fire. They saved the day, that’s what
they did. We elected ’em on the spot. I was there! I ought to know! My,
but that was a blaze!” he exclaimed. “Me and the chief never forgot
your services. I’m general adviser of the department,” he continued.
“You saw me there?”

“Of course,” said Jerry, who, with the other boys now remembered the
little man who had been so fussy to see that the ancient hand engine
worked well.

“Well, any friends of yours are friends of mine,” said the tall
gentleman. “Introduce me, Henry,” which the only living charter member
of the Towanda Fire Department proceeded to do with old fashioned
courtesy.

“You’re just in time for dinner,” spoke Mr. Johnson. “I shall only be
too proud to have you join us. My cousin has told me, several times of
your assistance at the big fire. I have often desired to meet you. My
cousin came over on a visit this week. Fortunate that you should have
known of it and followed him.”

“We didn’t. It was all an accident,” said Jerry.

Then, in a few words he explained what had happened, relating the theft
of the motor boat, and how it happened they were only chance visitors.

“Remarkable, remarkable!” exclaimed Mr. Johnson. “I never heard
anything like it. Now come right in. My wife and daughters will be
delighted to meet you and hear that story.”

Almost unconsciously, at the suggestion of meeting ladies, the boys
glanced at their clothes.

“Now, now, no apologies!” exclaimed Mr. Johnson. “I’ll explain
everything. You must take dinner with me. It is almost ready. Sambo,
show the young gentlemen to the bath room, and tell Mary to put on
three extra plates. Delighted to have the opportunity of dining with
you,” Mr. Johnson added, bowing to the boys.

“Talk about luck!” said Bob, when they were left alone. “Say, we’re
right in it. Who’d ever thought our helping at that fire would have
brought us a meal just when we needed it most.”

The other boys were equally impressed by the strange coincidence, and
voted it a most fortunate thing that they should have come to the house
where cousin Henry was stopping. They were all the more inclined to
thank their lucky stars when they saw the bountiful meal that was set
upon the table half an hour later.

The boys had to tell their story over again, with all the details,
for Mrs. Johnson, and her two daughters, both young ladies were much
interested, and asked scores of questions.

“I don’t suppose you heard or saw a motor boat going up the river, did
you?” asked Jerry of his host.

“Not personally,” replied Mr. Johnson. “But I did hear Sambo say
something about hearing a queer whistle out on the water sometime ago.
Maybe that was it. I’ll let you ask him.”

The colored man was summoned, and proved to have even better news. He
said he had been down on the river bank several hours previous and had
seen a boat, that answered every description of the _Dartaway_, going
up at full speed.

“Could you see who was on board?” asked Jerry.

“’Peared laik there was two men on her,” said Sambo, “a little one an’
a bigger one.”

“We’d better start right off after them,” said Ned.

“I can’t let you go so soon,” protested Mr. Johnson. “Perhaps I can be
of some assistance to you. I have a number of rowboats, and you’re
welcome to one or more of them. You can row up stream, which is better
than walking, though it’s not so fast as your craft goes. Then, if I
were you I’d send dispatches to the principal cities and towns along
the river, asking the police to keep a look-out for your boat.”

“That’s a good idea,” said Jerry. “I never thought of that. Thank you
very much.”

“Then you had better send a telegram home to your folks telling them
you will be delayed,” went on Mr. Johnson.

“Is there a station near here?” asked Ned.

“I will send Sambo over to town with the messages this afternoon,” Mr.
Johnson said. “In the meanwhile make yourselves to home here, and rest
up. You’ll have hard work ahead of you I’m afraid before you get your
boat back. We have heard rumors lately of a gang of thieves that have
infested this neighborhood, especially along the river. Maybe some of
them have your craft.”




CHAPTER XVII

FINDING THE DARTAWAY


Right after dinner each of the boys wrote a message home, and the
colored man drove off with them to the village about five miles away.
Then, having recovered from their fatigue, the boys went to look at
Mr. Johnson’s collection of craft. They found he had several large
rowboats, and they selected one which two could pull, while a third
person in the stern could steer. It was rather a heavy craft, but it
was large and roomy, and on a pinch they could sleep in it at night.

“This will be just the thing to make the search in,” said Jerry. “Could
we take her for three or four days?”

“As long as you like,” said Mr. Johnson heartily. “Just keep it and use
it until you find your boat, and you can then tow it back. Now come
into the house. I want to pack up some lunch for you, and give you some
blankets to camp out with, since you are determined to start to-night.”

Having packed some provisions in the boat, taking along a pot to
make coffee in, a supply of the commodity and a small oil stove, some
kerosene, and a lantern, the searchers started off.

They camped out under a big tree at dusk and ate with good appetites
in spite of their gloomy spirits and then, having built a fire on the
bank, they prepared to spend the night.

“Forward again!” cried Jerry when after breakfast the simple camp
outfit had been packed into the boat. At noon they came to a small
village where they stopped for lunch, and to stretch their weary legs.

There they learned that the _Dartaway_ had passed early the previous
afternoon. It had made a short stop for gasolene. Of the dealer in the
fuel the boys learned that two rough looking men were aboard the craft.
Neither of them had said anything to give a clue to their identity.

It was about three o’clock, when, as the boys were rowing in a wide
stretch of the river, Jerry, who was at the tiller ropes, cried:

“Hark! Cease rowing! I hear something!”

Bob and Ned rested on their oars. The sound of puffing was borne to
them on the wind which was blowing up stream.

“It’s a motor boat!” exclaimed Jerry.

“Or an automobile,” said Bob.

“Automobiles don’t run along the river,” said Jerry. “There’s no good
road within a mile of the stream, Mr. Johnson said. It’s a motor boat.”

“But it’s coming up stream,” said Bob. “It can’t be our boat.”

“Unless it went down past us in the night,” remarked Ned. “But we’ll
soon see.”

Nearer and nearer sounded the puffing of the engine. There was no doubt
that it was a motor boat and that it was coming up stream rapidly. The
boys rowed enough to keep their craft from drifting, and, five minutes
later the oncoming boat hove in sight.

“It’s the _Terror_!” exclaimed Ned and Jerry at once, as they
recognized the Cresville police boat. “Well, if this isn’t good luck,”
Jerry went on. “_Terror_ ahoy!” he shouted making a megaphone of his
hands.

In answer there came three sharp toots from the whistle of the gasolene
craft, and her course was changed to send her over towards the boys.

“Did you come for us?” called Jerry.

“Not unless you are the burglars we’re after,” replied Chief Dalton,
who was in the bow, and who recognized the boys.

“Burglars?” asked Ned.

“That’s what,” replied the chief of the Cresville force. “We’re out on
business this trip. But what’s the matter with you? Got tired of your
new boat so soon?”

Jerry quickly explained what had happened. The chief was much
surprised. The _Terror_ had been stopped and, at the invitation of the
police official, the boys came into the motor boat. There were several
policemen aboard and the engineer.

“Shall we tow our boat?” asked Bob.

“Better leave it tied to the bank,” said the chief. “I want to make all
the speed I can. We’ll pick it up on the way back, that is if you boys
want to come along with us.”

“We sure do,” said Jerry. “We’d like to have your help in finding our
boat.”

“Maybe I can kill two birds with one stone,” the chief replied. “There
was quite a robbery at Northville last night, and they telegraphed for
me to help. The thieves got away in a motor boat, it seems.”

“Northville,” said Jerry. “That’s the very place we stopped for lunch,
where the gasolene man said he saw our boat. Who was robbed?”

“Why they broke into the general store there, and got away with about a
thousand dollars in cash that was in the safe from the Saturday night
sales. They haven’t much of a police force in the town, and they asked
me to help ’em out.”

“Maybe the same men who stole our boat robbed the safe,” ventured Ned.

“I shouldn’t be a bit surprised,” came from Chief Dalton. “But we must
get a hustle on. I’ll tow your rowboat over to shore and you can tie
her up. Then we’ll keep on up the river.”

Ten minutes later, Mr. Johnson’s boat having been safely moored, the
boys were on their way up stream in a much speedier fashion than they
had been proceeding since the loss of their craft. A good lookout was
kept for any sight of the _Dartaway_.

“I’ll land ’em yet,” the chief said. “They can’t go much farther as the
river gets too shallow. I only hope they stick to the boat to the last.
If they strike across country it will be hard to find them.”

All the afternoon the _Terror_ chug-chugged on her way. The boys forgot
their anxiety over the loss of their boat, and did not think of their
fatigue in the excitement of the chase.

It was about six o’clock, when, having made a short stop at a little
village, to learn that the _Dartaway_ had passed not more than an hour
before, the chief, who was steering, held up his hand for silence.

Everyone on the _Terror_ listened intently. From the broad stretch of
water before them, borne on a wind which had shifted and was coming
down the river, the faint puffing of a motor boat could be heard.

“That’s the _Dartaway_!” exclaimed Jerry. “I know her exhaust!”

“I hope you’re right!” said the chief grimly. “Put a little more speed
on,” he said to the engineer, and the _Terror_ leaped ahead under the
influence of more gasolene and an advanced spark.

A minute later they rounded a turn in the river and saw the _Dartaway_
just as her engine came to a stop.




CHAPTER XVIII

READY FOR A CRUISE


“They’re slowing up!” cried Jerry. “They’re going to stop! We’ll get
’em now!”

Sure enough the _Dartaway_ was slackening speed. She was headed toward
shore. The _Terror_ was gaining rapidly now. Chief Dalton stood up and
drew his revolver in preparation of capturing the motor boat thieves.

But now the _Dartaway_ was so near shore that the men in her could
almost leap to the bank. They could be seen turning the wheel so as to
throw the craft parallel with the shore.

“They’re going to jump! We’ll lose ’em!” cried Ned.

“Let ’em go,” advised Bob. “All we want back is our boat and we’ll get
that.”

“That may suit you but it doesn’t me,” spoke the chief of police
grimly. “I’m after thieves and I’m going to get ’em. They may not be
the men I want, but I’ll catch ’em just the same and find out what
they’re up to.”

But it looked as if the chief would have no easy task to secure the
motor boat thieves. For, the next instant the pair leaped ashore,
splashing through the shallow water near the edge, and leaving the
_Dartaway_ to continue on from the momentum it had gathered.

With a whirl of the wheel the _Terror_ was headed toward shore. The
chief and some of his men prepared to make a quick landing.

“As soon as we get ashore I’ll have the engineer put you out where
you can get your boat,” the chief said. “I’ve got to take after those
fellows!”

“We’ll be with you as soon as we secure the _Dartaway_!” cried Jerry.

“That’s what!” chimed in Ned and Bob.

With drawn revolvers the chief and his men leaped toward shore, not
waiting until their boat was at the bank, but splashing through the
water as the thieves had done. As soon as they were off the engineer of
the _Terror_ put his craft after the boys’ boat.

In a little while the boys were aboard. They soon satisfied themselves
that no great damage had been done, nor had anything of value been
taken. The thieves had evidently made themselves at home, since the
lockers were pretty well emptied of food.

The _Terror_ had put back to where the chief and his men disembarked.
Jerry set the engine of the _Dartaway_ going and soon found it was in
good order. Then, with Ned at the wheel, the craft was turned around
and headed back toward where the thieves had jumped off. The boys
landed at about the same spot, and moored their craft to a big tree.

“Look there!” exclaimed Jerry pointing to a soft place in the mud on
the river’s bank.

Ned and Bob glanced to where he indicated. There in the soil were the
marks of several large foot-prints, and, conspicuous among them were
several in the sole of which was the mark of an arrow, made in hob
nails.

“The same man who took our boat stuck by her until the end,” said
Jerry. “Come on; let’s go after the chief.”

Calling to the engineer of the _Terror_ to have an eye on their boat,
the boys raced up the bank and across the fields in the direction the
police posse had taken. As they started to run they heard the sound of
several revolver shots.

“They’re fighting!” cried Jerry. “Come on!”

The boys needed no urging. They raced at top speed in the direction
of the shots. As they topped a small hill they could see in a valley
below them, two roughly dressed men running away from the chief and his
officers, who were a quarter of a mile behind. As they watched they saw
the chief raise his revolver and fire twice into the air.

“He don’t want to hit them, he’s only trying to scare them into
stopping!” cried Ned. “Come on!”

Down the hill they raced, losing sight of the pursued and the pursuers
as they got below the hill top. Still they could hear the shouts of the
police.

The chase was now on in earnest. But it was a stern one and likely to
prove a long one. The boys, in about five minutes, caught up to one of
the officers, and raced along with him. They could hear the crashing
of the underbrush as policemen ahead of them raced through it. The
chief fired several more shots, but, the boat thieves were not to be
intimidated, and did not halt.

In a little while the boys came up to the chief. He and the leaders
were panting from the run.

“Have you lost them?” asked Jerry.

“I’m afraid so,” said the chief. “They turned into a swamp, and I’m not
familiar enough with it to make it worth while to go in. I’m going
to get help from the local authorities and surround the place. Then
perhaps I can catch them.”

“Can we take any message for you?” asked Jerry. “I think we’d better be
going back. It’s getting dark and I don’t suppose you can do anything
more this evening.”

“I don’t believe I can,” admitted the chief. “I guess we’ll all go
back. I’ve done my part in this. Let the local constables finish where
I left off. I’ve run their men to cover now let ’em get ’em out.”

“Anyhow you got back our boat for us,” said Jerry, “and we’re much
obliged for that.”

Rather tired from the chase and the excitement, the boys and the
policemen retraced their steps to the river. They found the two boats
awaiting them.

“Did they do any damage to your craft?” asked the chief of Jerry.

“None that I could notice, but I didn’t make a close examination,”
replied the boy. “Come aboard, you’ve never been on her.”

“Thanks,” replied the chief, and, as his men got into the _Terror_, he
stepped into the _Dartaway_. As he did so he uttered an exclamation.

“What’s the matter? Is she leaking?” asked Jerry in alarm.

“No, but see what I found!” the chief said, holding up a small object
he picked from the cockpit of the _Dartaway_.

“What is it?” asked Ned.

“A diamond ring,” said the chief. “It is one of several stolen,
together with the money, from the Northville store. There’s no doubt
now but that the motor boat thieves and those who robbed the store are
the same. My! But I wish I could have caught them!”

He placed the ring in his pocket, and, after a look over the boys’
craft, prepared to return to his own.

“Maybe the thieves left some cash behind as well as a ring,” suggested
Jerry.

“No such luck,” the chief made answer as he went over the side. “Well,
are you boys going down the river?”

“I think we’ll put up at the hotel in Northville, if there is one,”
said Jerry. “It’s too long a trip to go back to Cresville to-night.”

“That’s a good idea,” said the chief. “I think I’ll do the same.
Just come along with me and I’ll see that you are accommodated with
lodgings. I’ll swear you in as my deputies,” he said with a laugh, “and
it won’t cost you anything. Besides I may need your help.”

Just as the two boats were making ready for the trip down the river
there was a movement on shore. The bushes parted and a roughly dressed
man, with what seemed to be a week’s growth of beard on his face,
stepped out.

“Can any of you gentlemen oblige a poor tired wayfarer with a lift down
this placid stream?” he asked with a bow which took in both parties.

At the sound of his voice the boys started. They wondered where they
had heard those tones before.

“Who are you and what do you want?” asked the chief sternly. “They
don’t deal very lightly with tramps in these parts. You’d better clear
out. We’re police officers.”

“Glad to meet you. I am the Duke of Wellington,” said the tramp in airy
tones.

At that answer the chief gave a start, and then tried to appear as
if nothing had happened. But Jerry who was watching intently, saw an
almost imperceptible sign pass between the chief and the ragged man.

“Oh, if you’re the Duke, I suppose we’ll have to accommodate you,” the
chief replied. “You can come in my boat if you want to.”

Then, to the no small astonishment of the policemen, the tramp climbed
aboard the _Terror_, which, with a throb of the engine started down
the river. The _Dartaway_ put after her at full speed.

“Well, I must say we’ve had plenty of excitement for one spell,”
observed Jerry.

“And there may be more,” said Ned.

“What makes you think so?”

“Because of that tramp,” and Ned indicated the one aboard the _Terror_.
“There’s something strange about him. Does he remind you of any one?”

“There!” exclaimed Jerry. “I was wondering where I had heard that voice
before. He’s the tramp who was asleep on the hay barge. I wonder what
he’s doing around here, and so friendly with the police.”

“There’s something behind all this,” observed Ned. “We must keep our
eyes open.”

The boys’ craft soon caught up to the police boat which was more
heavily laden, and the two proceeded down the stream toward Northville.
It was after dark when they tied up at a dock, and, making their boat
snug proceeded to follow the lead of Chief Dalton.

“Is it safe to leave our boat here?” asked Jerry.

“I guess so,” replied the officer. “I’m going to have a man on guard
all night. I guess the thieves won’t come back. Come ahead; we’ll go to
the hotel and have supper.”

Jerry and Bob walked on ahead with the main body of policemen, but Ned,
who lingered to get from the locker a better coat than the one he was
wearing, the other boys having changed garments before, found himself
close behind the chief and tramp who were walking up from the river
together.

“Any luck?” Ned heard the chief ask the ragged man in a low voice.

“I think I’ve discovered the cave where they hide the stuff,” was the
cautious rejoinder. “It’s about where--”

In his eagerness to walk softly and hear what was being said, which
perhaps he had no right to do, Ned stepped on a piece of wood that
broke with a sharp crack. The two men turned suddenly.

“As I was saying,” the tramp spoke suddenly in a loud voice, evidently
for the benefit of any listeners, “I have tramped many weary miles, and
have eaten scarcely anything. I am too ill to work, and I don’t know
where I am to sleep to-night.”

The jingling sound of money passing from the chief’s hand to that of
the tramp could be heard.

“Now you’d better clear out of here,” said the police officer sternly.
“It isn’t a healthy place for tramps. If I catch you loafing around I’m
going to lock you up.”

“You’ll never catch me,” the tramp said with a laugh as he moved away
in the darkness. “I’ll clear out.”

“Odd character,” the chief remarked turning back to Ned. “Sometimes I
feel sorry for those fellows. Some of ’em are all right, but luck is
against ’em. Well, I expect you are hungry.”

“Oh I can eat a little,” replied Ned, puzzling his brains over the
strange scene he had witnessed. But the chief was evidently not
inclined to talk about it, and Ned did not feel like asking.

In a little while the whole party was at the hotel, where a meal was
served. Then the boys, having sent telegrams home, stating they were
all well and would be home the following day, went to bed.

The next day they returned Mr. Johnson’s boat and went home.

For a week after this the boys dug away at their examinations and,
though they were, perhaps, thinking more of what they would do in
vacation than about their studies, they all managed to pass with good
averages.

“Now for a long cruise down to Lake Cantoga!” exclaimed Jerry on the
afternoon of the last day of school. “I’m going to tie a stone to my
books and anchor ’em out in the middle of the river. When I want ’em
again I hope the fishes will have eaten ’em up!”

The boys arranged to leave the Tuesday following the last Friday at
school. Bob and Jerry were early down at the boathouse that morning.
Ned had promised to be on hand early but, for some unaccountable reason
was late.

“I wonder what’s keeping him,” said Jerry.

“Here he comes now,” spoke Bob, “and he’s running as if something had
happened.”




CHAPTER XIX

THE STORE ROBBERY


“What’s the matter?” asked Jerry as Ned came down on the dock, his face
quite pale, and, evidently laboring under some excitement.

“Store--robbed--last--night!” panted Ned.

“Whose store?” asked Jerry and Bob together.

“Father’s,” replied Ned. “They just discovered it, and I came to tell
you we’d have to delay the trip. They got in last night, and got away
with about three thousand dollars in money and jewelry. About one
thousand was in cash. It’s a big loss. Now I’ve got to go back and help
dad.”

“Who did it?” asked Bob.

“That’s what they’d like to find out, Chunky,” said Jerry. “I don’t
s’pose the burglars left their cards, with their addresses on, behind
them.”

“Great excitement! Terrible! Awful! Big robbery! ’Bout a million loss!
General alarm sent out! Get the detectives to work! Send for blood
hounds! Notify the sheriff and start a hunt! This is the greatest thing
that’s ever happened!”

The boys turned to see whence the torrent of words proceeded.

“I might have known it was Andy Rush,” said Jerry. “Is there anything
else, Andy? Haven’t you forgotten something?”

“Oh yes! I forgot to tell you. I have a clue to the thieves!”

“What?” cried all the boys at once.

“That’s what,” said Andy, growing more calm as the others grew excited.
“I went over the place as soon as I heard of the robbery, and I got the
clue. I’m going to be a detective some day. You just keep your eye on
me.”

“It’s all we can do to keep track of what you are saying,” said
Ned, “let alone what you are going to do. But tell us about it. I’m
interested.”

“Let Ned tell us of the robbery first,” suggested Bob.

This was voted a good idea, and Ned related how, when his father’s
department store was opened in the morning, it was discovered that
the safe had been blown open, and the money and jewelry stolen. In
addition the thieves had carried off some solid silver tableware, and a
few rolls of valuable silk.

“How did they get in?” asked Bob.

“That’s the funny part of it,” replied Ned. “There’s no trace of
anything being forced, not a door or window is disturbed, as far as we
can learn.”

“That’s where you’re wrong,” said Andy calmly. “That’s where my clue
comes in. I know how they entered.”

“Then why didn’t you tell the police about it?” demanded Ned somewhat
indignantly.

“Because no one asked me to,” answered Andy. “I wanted to tell you, but
I couldn’t find you so I came here, as I thought you’d be starting on
the trip.”

“Well, you can tell me now, Andy,” remarked Ned.

“I can explain it better if we go up to the store,” Andy answered. “I
want to show you just how it was.”

“We might as well go there,” came from Jerry. “We will not undertake
the trip to-day. To-morrow or next day will do as well. Besides, maybe
we can help your father, Ned.”

“I don’t want to spoil your fun,” interposed Ned. “But I’ve got to
stay home for a few days anyhow. You could go on without me.”

“We’re not going,” said Bob stoutly.

“No indeed,” chimed in Jerry.

The boys talked of nothing but the robbery as they started back towards
Cresville, having locked the boat up. When they got to Mr. Slade’s
store they found a big crowd about the place. They elbowed their way
through the throng and were about to enter, when a little man with a
small bunch of whiskers on his chin stopped them.

“Here, where you boys goin’?” he asked.

“Inside,” answered Ned.

“I guess not, young man. I’m a deputy constable, sworn in special t’
maintain order an’ not to let anyone inside. I’m goin’ t’ do it, tew,
an’ you can bet your bottom dollar on it,” and the little man threw
back his coat and displayed a big tin star.

“Who swore you in?” asked Ned.

“Chief Dalton, that’s who, an’ I’ll arrest ye, if ye make any more
threatenin’ moves.”

“Well, it’s my father’s store, and these are friends of mine,” said
Ned. “We want to go in.”

“Look here!” exclaimed the little deputy excitedly. “Look me in th’
eye, young man,” and he pulled down the lower lid of the optic, placing
his face close to Ned’s.

“Looks all right,” said Ned, with a smile.

“Course it does; there nothin’ th’ matter with that eye. But d’ye see
anythin’ green in it?”

“No,” answered Ned.

“No, I guess not. I cut my eye teeth some time ago. Th’ last time I
bought a gold brick was so long ago I’ve forgotten it. You can’t come
it over me with any of your bunco games. I believe ye’re part of th’
robber gang!”

The little deputy seemed so impressed with his sudden idea that he was
for at once putting the four boys under arrest. He was only deterred by
the timely arrival of Chief Dalton, who had heard the disturbance and
come to see what it was about.

A word from him satisfied the constable, who was one of a number
hastily sworn in when it was found what a crowd had gathered on hearing
news of the robbery, and he let the chums pass.

“Come ahead boys,” said the chief. “This is a bad piece of work.”

“Do you think it has any connection with the Northville robbery?” asked
Jerry.

“I wouldn’t be surprised. But I haven’t time to talk. I’m trying to
get a clue to start with, and I can’t seem to find any. I will before
night though.”

“Have you found where they got in?” asked Jerry.

“Not yet,” answered the chief. “Have you heard anything, Ned?”

“Andy here seems to think he has a clue,” replied the son of the store
proprietor. “Tell him about it, Andy.”

Andy blushed at the notice he was attracting from the head of the
Cresville police force.

“It was this way,” began Andy, when they had all entered the store,
which was deserted as far as customers went, since Mr. Slade had
ordered it kept closed. “I was one of the first to arrive. In fact I
was an early customer. I wanted to buy a new knife. So I was on hand
when the head clerk discovered the safe had been robbed. As I’m going
to be a detective, I decided I would look for clues. I couldn’t find
any around the safe, so, when the clerk ran to the telephone to call
for the police, I wandered through the store. No one noticed me, and I
soon found myself on the top floor. If you’ll come with me there I’ll
show you what I found,” and Andy started toward the elevator.

“Oh can’t you tell us without waiting all that while?” asked Ned who
was growing impatient as it really seemed Andy had discovered something.

“I can, but I can do it better if I point out to you what I saw,”
replied the boy. “Come on.”

They followed him. The elevator carried them to the top floor. No trade
was done there, as it was only a loft used for storing stock or goods
that were out of season. Andy led the way through the half darkness to
the rear. He stopped in front of a window the sill of which was thick
with dust.

“Look there!” he exclaimed, pointing to something in the soft and
fluffy covering of the sill. It was the print of a man’s foot.

“The mark of the arrow!” exclaimed Ned as he bent over it. “The same
man who stole our boat robbed the store!”

The party gathered around the window, the chief plainly excited at the
unexpected clue. The window had a large iron shutter on it, and this
was partly closed. The chief swung it open.

“There’s how the thieves got in,” said Andy, pointing to a window in
a building which was close to Mr. Slade’s store in the rear. In this
half-opened casement a plank could be seen sticking, as if some one
had pulled it part way in and then left it.

“There’s the bridge they came across on,” said the chief. “Sure enough,
Andy, you’ve discovered what I could not. Come on, we’ll make positive
of it.”

Down stairs the party hurried, and around the block to the building
which abutted Mr. Slade’s place in the rear. The structure contained
stores on the ground floor and apartments for several families above.
The top story was used as a lodge room. There was a hallway at one side
of the store entrance, which gave access to the flats above, and the
door to it, as the chief learned was never locked.

“They just waited their opportunity, went up to the lodge room, stuck
the plank across, and came in the window,” said Mr. Dalton.

“But the window did not appear to have been forced,” said Jerry.

“They didn’t have to force it,” replied the chief. “It has no lock on
it.”

Up to the lodge room went the chief and the boys, their entrance
attracting no attention, as the crowd, and most of Cresville’s idlers,
were in front of the robbed store.

“I thought so,” the chief said as he came to the door of the lodge
room where it opened from the hall. The portal had been forced. Through
the big apartment they tramped, and to the rear where there were
dressing and store rooms, seldom used.

“Look!” cried Andy, pointing to the dust covered floor. “The mark of
the arrow!”

There, plainly to be seen in the particles of dirt were the footsteps
of the mysterious man who had escaped the police in the motor boat
chase. The marks were all over, showing that the one who made them had
tramped about the room making his arrangements to rob the department
store.

“There was some one with him,” the chief said.

“How can you tell?” asked Ned.

For answer the police official pointed to another series of footprints
in the dust. They were smaller than those with the arrow mark, and bore
no distinguishing imprint.

The board, a plank about ten feet long, had been dragged from a store
room as the marks in the dust showed. It had been drawn back only part
way, probably because the thieves had been in too much of a hurry to
leave after securing their booty.

Following the chief the boys descended the stairs from the lodge room.
The recent developments put a new light on the matter, though the boys
did not see how they could lead to the detection of the thieves.

“I must have a talk with some of the tenants of this place,” the chief
remarked.

They had reached the street by this time, and the boys were about to
leave. At that instant, Mr. Nixon, Noddy’s father came running up to
the head of the police force.

“I want your help!” Mr. Nixon exclaimed.

“What’s the matter?” asked the chief.

“Noddy has been kidnapped!”




CHAPTER XX

OFF TO THE LAKE


“Kidnapped?” the chief exclaimed.

“Yes! Look here!” spoke Mr. Nixon, his hands trembling with excitement
as he extended a piece of paper to the chief. “Noddy did not come home
all night. This morning I found this in his room. It is terrible. You
must help me find him.”

The chief read aloud what was written on the paper:

    “We have taken your son away. If you want his return say
    nothing but leave $1,000 under the old oak tree on the river
    bank Friday night.

    “_The River Pirates._”

“What do you think of that?” asked Mr. Nixon, who was much excited.

“Um,” spoke the chief non-committally. “It’s certainly very strange,
Mr. Nixon. Noddy is rather a large size to kidnap, but then you can’t
tell about criminals now. If you’ll leave this with me I’ll put some
of my men right to work on it. I’ve got my own hands full with this
robbery.”

“Cresville certainly is coming into public notice,” remarked Jerry in a
low tone to Bob. “First it’s a robbery, then Noddy Nixon disappears.”

“Kidnapped you mean,” interposed Bob.

“No, I don’t,” said Jerry. “Noddy is no more stolen away than I am.”

By this time the chief had walked off down the street and Mr. Nixon
went with him. The boys remained together.

“But what in the world--” began Bob, when Jerry stopped him with a
wink, and made a slight motion of his head toward Andy. He need have
no concern about Andy, as it developed, for that youth, all afire to
continue his detective work, made a hasty excuse to the motor boys and
hurried off down the street after the chief.

“What’s that you and Chunky were saying about Noddy?” asked Ned, who
had not been listening very closely to what his friends were talking
about.

“Jerry says Noddy was never kidnapped,” spoke Bob.

“I don’t believe he was,” put in Jerry. “I happened to get a glimpse of
the note Mr. Nixon had. It was partly printed and partly written, but
I’m a Dutchman if some of the handwriting wasn’t Noddy’s.”

“How do you happen to be so familiar with his handwriting?” asked Ned.

“I have a couple of specimens,” replied Jerry. He drew from his pocket
some slips of paper. “One is that letter he wrote to us some time ago,”
said Jerry, “when he accused us of being responsible for his running
away from home the time he rode off in his father’s auto. The other is
that bill he gave us for the fifteen dollars damage to the rowboat. I
picked it up after Ned threw it at Noddy that Sunday.”

“And you think the writing in the kidnapping note is like some of
this?” asked Ned.

“I’m sure of it,” went on Jerry. “Besides, who would kidnap Noddy? It’s
true, his father is wealthy, and able to pay a ransom, but don’t you
suppose Noddy would raise a cry if some one tried to walk off with him?”

“Maybe he did, but he might have been all alone, and no one heard him,”
suggested Bob.

“Noddy doesn’t go out very much alone,” said Jerry. “He has Bill Berry
or some other crony of his with him. Of course I’m only guessing
at it, but I wouldn’t be a bit surprised to find out that Noddy’s
disappearance had some connection with this robbery.”

“You don’t mean to say you think Noddy robbed my father’s store?” asked
Ned.

“Oh no, not quite that,” said Jerry.

“What then?”

“Well, I think Noddy has gotten in with a bad gang. Some of them may
have done this robbery, and in order to get him out of the way, for
fear he might disclose something, they have arranged this kidnapping
hoax. He may be a sort of captive, but he is among friends, I’m sure of
that.”

“Why don’t you tell Chief Dalton this?” asked Bob.

“And get laughed at for my pains,” said Jerry. “I guess not. The chief
has his hands full. Perhaps he doesn’t believe Noddy is kidnapped, but
he will not say so. Mr. Nixon is one of the biggest men in town, and
the chief wants to please him. So he’ll naturally fall in with Mr.
Nixon’s notions, and try to pretend he believes Noddy is a captive.”

“Then what are we to do?” asked Chunky, to whom the events of the last
few hours came in bewildering rapidity.

“I think the best thing for us to do is to go camping just as we
planned,” said Jerry. “I don’t believe we can do much here, do you Ned?”

“No, I don’t s’pose we can,” replied that youth. “I did want to help
dad, but as long as the stuff is gone, and there is some clue to the
thieves, I don’t see that I can do any more. I’m for going to camp.”

“Well, let’s go then,” said Bob. “I’m anxious to get out in the woods
where I’ll have an appetite.”

“Good land! If you get up any more of an appetite than you have now,
Chunky,” said Ned, “I don’t know what we’ll do with you. Can’t you do
something for it? Take Anti-Fat or Padded Pellets for Peculiar People
or something that’s advertised in the backs of magazines. It’s terrible
to have such an appetite as you have.”

“I guess you’d think so, sometimes,” remarked Bob, as he looked at his
watch and noted with satisfaction that it was nearly dinner time.

“Come on down to my house for lunch!” exclaimed Ned, divining Bob’s
thoughts. “We can talk matters over with dad, and see if it’s all right
to go.”

Mr. Slade saw no objection to the boys making the trip. His loss, while
a heavy one, did not cripple him, as he was a rich man. He thanked the
boys for their thoughtfulness in offering to give up their pleasure
trip to help him, but said he did not see there was anything they could
do.

“I guess the police will find the robbers if it’s possible,” he added.
“At the same time, if you run across any clues on the lake you can let
us know. It seems to be the belief of the officials that the robbers
came and went in a boat. It might have been a power or a sail boat. If
it happens to come on the lake with my valuables and goods in, if you
get them I’ll give you a reward,” and he laughed for the first time
that day.

“We may claim that reward,” said Jerry.

The boys made an early start the next morning and, just as it was
getting dusk they made a turn in the broadening river, and, saw spread
out before them a big sheet of water.

Lake Cantoga was about fifteen miles long and nine wide. There were
several small islands in it, and these, as well as the shores were
favorite spots for camping parties. The boys decided to pick out one of
the islands, but, as it was getting dark, they could not see which one
had not been selected by other campers.

“I think we had better tie up along shore to-night,” said Jerry, as he
steered the boat out upon the lake. “We can look about better in the
morning.”

“Suits me,” said Bob, and Ned agreed.

As the _Dartaway_ skimmed out from the shadows of the shore she
was seen by the owners of other power boats, and greeted with the
regulation three whistles, to which Jerry replied.

“Guess they’re glad to see us,” he remarked. “I had no idea there were
so many here this year. Maybe we’ll get a race.”

“That will be bully sport,” said Bob.

“Going to camp here?” called the steersman of one boat, which, as the
boys could see, was evidently built for racing, as there was little
room for anything but the engine.

“We figure on staying a week or so,” replied Jerry.

“Glad of it,” replied the stranger. “My name’s Smith, just plain John
Smith. I’m camping with some friends over on Coon’s Island. Come over
and see us when you get settled.”

“Thanks,” answered Jerry. “Are there any other good islands to camp on?”

“There’s Deer Island, next to ours,” replied Mr. Smith. “It’s a nice
place, and hasn’t been taken yet this year. Why don’t you come there?”

“Maybe we will,” replied Jerry. “We’re going to tie up along shore for
to-night.”

“Be pleased to have you put up at my shack,” said the owner of the
racing boat. “Got lots of room.”

“Thank you, we’ll rough it for to-night,” said Jerry. “We’ll look you
up to-morrow.”

“Well, then, good-night,” called Mr. Smith, and he opened up his boat
and shot away in a smother of foam. “Hope you go in the races,” he
called back, but he was too far away then to be answered.

“Let’s have supper,” broke in Bob. “We can talk about racing to-morrow.”

Jerry sent the boat under some overhanging trees. She was made fast
with bow and stern lines, and then the boys, having lighted several
lanterns, and the big search lamp, prepared supper.




CHAPTER XXI

THE RACE


The meal was eaten with appetites such as only come from perfect health
and a life in the open. The boys filled themselves with no fear of
future consequences, and then, having let down the side curtains, and
seeing that all was snug, they pulled out the bunks and went to sleep.

They arose about nine o’clock and, after a bath donned their old
clothes, for they anticipated rough work in making camp, and prepared
breakfast.

“Shall we use lake water or get some from a spring for coffee?” asked
Ned.

“Better hunt for a spring,” suggested Jerry. “There’s a house up
there,” and he pointed to one quite a way from the river. “Maybe you
can get some there.”

Ned took a pail and jumped to the bank. As he did so he uttered a cry.

“Sprain your ankle?” asked Jerry.

“No, but look here!” exclaimed Ned.

In an instant Jerry was at his side. Ned pointed to the ground close
to a big tree to which the bow line of the _Dartaway_ was fastened.

There, in the soil was the imprint of a foot, and in the center of it
was the mark of an arrow worked in hob nails.

“The man who robbed my father’s store!” exclaimed Ned.

“Or one with the same kind of shoes,” added Jerry.

“There would hardly be two alike,” spoke Ned. “I’m sure it’s the same
one.”

“How can you be?” asked Jerry.

“Because I noticed that in the prints in the dust on the window
sill,” replied Ned, “that there was a nail missing from the shaft of
the arrow. See, there is a nail out in this one,” and he showed his
companion that this was so.

Jerry bent closer to the print.

“You’re right!” he said. “This mystery is deepening. But the prints
might have been there for some time.”

“No,” said Ned. “It rained after we went to bed last night. Not much,
but a shower sufficient to make mud. That print was made after the
rain.”

“Then the man was spying on us,” said Jerry.

“He certainly was around here,” put in Bob, who had come ashore. “Say,
let’s send for Chief Dalton.”

“Maybe we can do a little detective work ourselves,” suggested Ned.

“I think it would be better to let the chief know the man may be in
this neighborhood,” spoke Jerry. “Probably the information will not
amount to anything, but if something should happen they could not blame
us for keeping still.”

“Are you going back to Cresville?” asked Bob.

“No, I think it will do to drop him a note,” said Jerry. “We can run to
some post-office after breakfast.”

The meal was hurried along and then, Jerry having written a note
to Chief Dalton, the lines were cast off and the boat started for
Eastport, a little village about five miles off, where, as the boys
learned from the house where they got the water, they could post
letters.

They all went ashore at the post-office, which was near the edge of the
lake. Inside they found quite a large crowd.

“Mail must come in early,” said Ned, for it was hardly ten o’clock.

But it was not the arrival of the mail which had attracted the throng.
Instead they were all staring at a big poster on the wall. On top the
boys saw in big letters:

REWARD!

Underneath was a lot of reading matter, which, as the boys hastily
perused it, they saw was an account of the robbery of Mr. Slade’s
store, and a description of Noddy, who, it was stated, had been
kidnapped by a gang of river thieves. A reward of $500 was offered for
the arrest and conviction of the thieves, while Mr. Nixon offered to
pay a like sum for the return of his son. The posters were signed by
Chief Dalton.

“Well, things are certainly doing back in Cresville,” remarked Ned, as
Jerry posted the letter. “Mr. Nixon still thinks Noddy was stolen away.”

“Wouldn’t it be fun if we could land the thieves and Noddy too,” said
Bob. “That would be a thousand dollars.”

“I guess if we landed the thieves Noddy would not be far off,” spoke
Jerry in a low tone. “I don’t believe he would rob the store, but I’m
afraid he’s gotten in with a bad gang that would. Hello, here’s another
notice.”

There was one on the opposite wall. It was not so large as the other,
and was an announcement that the following Saturday there would be a
regatta at the lake, in which there would be rowing, sailing, swimming
and motor boat races.

“What’s the matter with us entering?” asked Bob.

“I guess we could,” commented Jerry. “I see our friend John Smith is in
charge. We can probably find out all particulars from him. But come on,
we’d better be getting to the island or we’ll find it taken.”

They learned from the postmaster how to get to Deer Island, and,
purchasing a few supplies, and some butter, which they had neglected to
bring along, they set out.

Deer Island was about an hour’s run from the village of Eastport, and
as they neared it they saw the boat they had met the evening before
cruising about.

“_Dartaway_ ahoy!” exclaimed Mr. Smith, who, as the boys could now see,
was a man about twenty-five years old.

“On board the _Tortoise_!” called back Jerry, reading the name of Mr.
Smith’s craft on the bow.

“I was wondering if you’d show up,” went on Mr. Smith. “That’s a nice
boat you got there. Can she go?”

“Well, we think so,” replied Jerry modestly.

“Come on out and have a brush,” invited Mr. Smith, running up along
side. The boys saw his craft was a powerful six cylindered one.

“Thank you, but I guess we’d better get our camp in shape first,” spoke
Jerry. “Afterward why perhaps we can have a race.”

“Tell you what, you’re just in time for the regatta,” went on Mr.
Smith. “I’m in charge of the motor boat contests. Let me enter you. The
prize is a silver cup.”

“Oh I guess you can put us down all right,” went on Ned.

“What are the names?” asked Mr. Smith, slowing down his craft and
producing paper and pencil.

Ned gave the names of his friends and his own, and Mr. Smith jotted
them down. “I’ll send you an entry blank this afternoon,” he said,
“and you can fill it up. I’ll show you over the course whenever you
like. Good-bye, I’ve got to run over for the mail,” and, opening
the throttle, he sent his boat ahead in a smother of foam while the
cylinders fairly thundered with the explosions.

“Guess we wouldn’t have much chance with him in the race,” observed Bob.

“Oh I don’t know,” Jerry said. “The _Dartaway_ is a pretty fast boat.
I’ll not give up until we’re beaten.”

The boys found Deer Island a pleasant place to camp. There were no
parties on it yet, though it was big enough for several. There was a
natural harbor, in a little cove, and some one had built a small dock,
and a boathouse, with merely a roof and no sides, where the _Dartaway_
could be kept.

“Say, this is all right,” commented Ned. “This is going to be jolly
sport.”

The boys spent a busy morning. They set up the tent, made up the cots,
and took the gasolene stove ashore, as they decided to do their cooking
on land rather than in the boat, where quarters were not any too large.
This done they found they had their appetites with them, and proceeded
to make a meal off canned stuff.

In the afternoon Mr. Smith came over with the entry blanks, which the
boys signed. Then, at their new friend’s suggestion, they followed him
over the course, a triangular one of three miles to each leg. Mr. Smith
showed them where the stake buoys were, and told them there was a clear
course, and plenty of water all around.

The day of the regatta could not have been better had it been made to
order. There was enough of a breeze to make sailing a pleasure, but
not enough to make the water rough. One after another the different
events were run off until it came time for the motor boat contest.

There were ten craft entered, and a pretty sight they made as they came
up to the starting line. Some of the boats were small and were given
a time allowance, while the larger ones were handicapped. Mr. Smith’s
boat, having the reputation, as the boys learned, of being the fastest
on the lake was held back ten minutes. The _Dartaway_ with Jerry
steering was placed on “scratchy” time, that is starting off with the
five boats judged to be about on an even footing as regarded speed.

At the signal off went the boats having a time allowance. Then the
five, including the _Dartaway_, got off together. Behind it came three
rated higher than the Cresville boys’ craft, and then the _Giant_, a
big boat, but with a smaller engine than the _Tortoise’s_. Last came
Mr. Smith’s craft, and what a noise she made when her captain, who,
with two friends was running her, threw in the high speed gear.

The race was on. Several power boats that had not entered followed the
contestants. The Judge’s boat was also going part way over the course.
At the two outer buoys were stationed markers to see that the boats
kept fairly to the course.

For the first few minutes the boys were so excited that they did not
know whether they had a chance to win or not. They kept pace with the
five boats in the company of which they started. Jerry called to Bob
and Ned to oil the engine more, and then he put on a little additional
speed.

The _Dartaway_ seemed to leap forward, and left the four boats behind.
Seeing this their owners increased their speeds, but Jerry, once he
found his craft was behaving finely, shoved the lever over another
notch or two, and soon was two lengths ahead of the nearest of the four.

“Now to overhaul some of those ahead,” spoke Bob.

“I’m afraid we can’t,” remarked Ned.

But the boys found they were slowly but surely coming up to the
leaders. Gradually they lessened the space between them until the
_Dartaway_ was in line with the first boat that got away.

But during this time the _Giant_ and _Tortoise_ had not been idle. With
their powerful engines they were slowly cutting down the _Dartaway’s_
lead. For a while the two larger craft were in line, but the _Giant_,
finding the load too much for her motors, dropped slowly to the rear.

Not so the _Tortoise_. In a smother of foam she came on, the explosions
roaring like a blast furnace.

“He’s going to catch us,” shouted Ned, for one had to yell to be heard
above the roar of the _Dartaway’s_ engine which had been cut off from
the muffler to give a little more power.

“The race isn’t over yet,” called back Jerry, shoving the levers over
almost to the last notch.

Shortly after the first buoy had been passed it became evident that
the struggle for the winning place was between the _Dartaway_ and
the _Tortoise_. The others had either given up or were racing among
themselves for third and fourth prizes.

Rounding the second buoy the _Tortoise_ passed the _Dartaway_. It was
to have been expected, but the boys felt none the less chagrined.
They had hoped to win, but it was a big thing to go up against a six
cylindered craft with a four.

But Jerry had not given up yet. He had the motor running at top speed
now. The spark had been advanced to the last notch, and the cylinders
were taking all the gasolene they could use and not choke. Slowly but
surely the _Tortoise_ drew away.

Suddenly there seemed to be some commotion on board the leading boat.
The two friends of Mr. Smith were seen to be busy over the motor.

“Hark!” cried Jerry. “One of his cylinders is missing! We have a chance
now.”

Sure enough the explosions from the _Tortoise_ were not so regular as
they had been. One of the cylinders had become clogged, and with five
going the engine worked unevenly.

“I think we can beat him!” exclaimed Jerry grimly. He was not rejoicing
over a contestant’s misfortune, but it is on such mishaps as this that
motor boat and automobile races are won and lost.

Now the _Dartaway_ was creeping up on her rival. True it was but a slow
advance, for there were still five cylinders in the _Tortoise_ against
her four. But the boys’ craft was doing nobly, and their hearts beat
high with hope.

Mr. Smith was not going to give up without a struggle. His two
companions worked like Trojans over the silent cylinder, but could not
get it to respond.

Then to the boys’ delight they found themselves on even terms with
the redoubtable _Tortoise_. They were on the home stretch with less
than a mile to go. Already they could hear the shouts, the cries and
the applause of the watching throngs, with which mingled the shrill
whistles of steam and motor boats.

Three minutes later the _Dartaway_ had regained the lead she had at the
start, and thirty seconds later had increased it. With two big waves
rolling away on either side of her cut-water she forged ahead. Foot
by foot she approached the stake boat. With one last look back, which
showed him the _Tortoise_ five lengths to the rear, Jerry with a final
turn of the wheel to clear the judges’ boat safely, sent the _Dartaway_
over the line a winner.




CHAPTER XXII

THE COLLISION


What shouting and cheers greeted the motor boys as they slowed up
their craft! The din was deafening, augmented as it was by the shrill
whistles. The _Tortoise_, too, was received with an ovation as she came
over the line second, but it was easy to see the victory of the smaller
boat was popular.

“Congratulations, boys!” called Mr. Smith as he run his craft
alongside. “You beat me fair and square.”

He did not refer to the fact that one of his cylinders went out of
commission, but for which fact he undoubtedly would have won. The boys
appreciated this.

The boys accepted their victory modestly, and when they were sent for
to go aboard the judges’ boat and get the prize Bob was for backing
out, while neither Ned nor Jerry felt much like going through the
ceremony.

“Tell ’em to send it over,” suggested Bob.

“That would hardly look nice,” replied Jerry. “Come on, let’s all go
together. It will soon be over. Who’d have thought we could have butted
into the lime-light so soon?”

Having received the cup and stowed it safely away Jerry was about to
steer the _Dartaway_ back to Deer Island when he was hailed by Mr.
Smith.

“Oh I say, you’re not going away, are you?” asked the skipper of the
_Tortoise_.

“I think we’d better be getting back,” replied Jerry. “We have to
straighten out the camp.”

“Nonsense,” said Mr. Smith. “The fun’s not half over. Why there’s no
end of good things to eat over there. The committee made arrangements
to dine all contestants, and I’m sure you boys are the chief ones after
the handy way in which you won that race. Really now, you must stop a
bit with us.”

“I guess we’d better,” said Bob, in a whisper. “It wouldn’t be polite
to refuse.”

“You were willing enough when it came to sliding out of the cup
proposition,” said Jerry, “but now, when there’s something to eat,
you’re right on the job, Chunky.”

“Guess we might as well,” put in Ned. “I could dally with a bit of
chicken myself.”

“Well, far be it from me to stand in the way,” said Jerry, and,
throwing the wheel around he followed the _Tortoise_, which, with the
other boats, was making toward shore.

In the grove the boys found Mr. Smith had not exaggerated matters when
he said there “was no end of good things to eat.” Large tables had been
spread under the trees and waiters were flying here and there. The boys
were a bit confused by all the excitement, but Mr. Smith soon found
them, and introducing them to some of his friends, got places for them
at one of the best tables.

“I guess you boys will have plenty of chances to race while you’re
here,” said Mr. Smith. “I hear a number of skippers want to try issues
with you.”

“Well, they’ll find us ready,” said Jerry. “We’re rather new at the
game, but we’ll do our best.”

“That’s the way to talk,” cried Mr. Smith. “Play the game to the limit,
no matter what it is. I’d like another brush myself. Your boat can
certainly go.”

“I think you could beat us,” said Jerry frankly. “If you hadn’t had
that accident you would have won.”

But now the dinner was almost over. Ice cream was being served, and
when every one had eaten their fill, there arose from the head table
where the regatta committee sat a cry of:

“Speeches! Speeches!”

Then came applause and cheers. The chairman of the committee arose and,
looking down toward where the motor boys were sitting, began:

“I’m sure it would give us all pleasure to hear a few words from the
winners of the motor boat race. They are newcomers to our midst, and,
as such we welcome them.”

“Hear! Hear!” cried the crowd. “Speech! Speech!”

For a moment the boys felt a sort of cold chill go down their backs. It
was the first time they had been placed in such a position. Bob looked
at Ned, Ned looked at Jerry, and Jerry glanced down at Bob.

“Say something, Jerry!” whispered Ned.

“Yes; go ahead; talk!” exclaimed Bob.

“Wait until I get you both back to camp!” muttered Jerry, as he pushed
back his chair and arose.

His heart was beating fast and there was a roaring in his ears. He was
greatly embarrassed, but he felt he must say something to show that he
appreciated the honor paid him and his comrades.

“I’m sure my friends and I are deeply sensible of this welcome,” he
said. “We didn’t expect to win the race, though we did our best.
We’re very glad to be here among you, and we hope to continue the
acquaintances we have made. And I want to say that if one of Mr.
Smith’s cylinders--I mean if one of Mr. Cylinder’s smith--er--that is
if the boat Mr. Smith cylinders--I mean owns--if his cylinder--er--that
is if his boat’s culander--cylinder--hadn’t cracked Mr. Smith’s head--I
would say if the cylinder--”

“What he means,” said Mr. Smith gallantly coming to the relief of poor
Jerry, “is that if I hadn’t had the misfortune to crack the forward
cylinder I might not have been beaten so badly. But I want to say
that that’s all nonsense. It was a fair race, and won fairly, and the
_Dartaway_ did it. So I ask you to join with me in giving three cheers
for the owners.”

The cheers were given with a will, and the boys felt the blushes coming
to their cheeks. Altogether it was a jolly time, and one the lads never
forgot.

“We didn’t make any mistake coming here,” said Jerry, who had taken his
place at the wheel as they started for their camp. “It’s almost as
much fun as automobiling in Mexico or crossing the plains.”

The boys were proceeding rather slowly as they had not yet familiarized
themselves with the lake and their bearings, and they did not want to
run into anything.

For a while the _Dartaway_ skimmed along, there being no other craft
near. The water lapped the sides and broke away in a ripple of silver
waves.

Suddenly Jerry threw out the gear clutch, and began spinning the wheel
around. At the same instant Bob and Ned, who had been looking to the
rear, turned around and saw a big black shape in front of them.

“Ahoy there! Schooner ahoy!” called Jerry. “What do you mean by
cruising about without a light. You’ve no right to do that. Look out
there. You’ll foul us!”

The sound of feet running about on a deck could be heard. Then there
came a moment of silence followed by a sudden jar and a grinding crash.




CHAPTER XXIII

THE MYSTERIOUS VOICE


The shock threw the _Dartaway_ back. Jerry had already turned off the
power, and was slowing down for the reverse when the smash came. The
motor boat had fairly poked her nose into the side of the schooner.

“Are we damaged?” cried Ned.

“I guess not,” replied Jerry, seizing one of the oil lanterns and
holding it over the side of the bow. He could see a big dent in the
wooden hull of the motor boat, and a larger one in the schooner. The
two boats were now drifting apart.

Aboard the schooner there was much confusion. Several persons seemed to
be talking at once. Lights flashed here and there.

“Look out, I’m going to back away,” said Jerry to Bob and Ned. “Is it
all clear to the rear?”

He swung the search lantern so that the beams cut a path of light aft.

“Nothing in the road,” sung out Ned.

Slowly the _Dartaway_ separated from the side of the schooner. As she
did so the stern of the larger vessel swung over toward the motor boat,
and Bob, who was watching it gave a sudden cry.

“What’s the matter? Is she going to hit us again?” called Jerry,
slowing up the engine.

“No!” cried Bob. Then lowering his voice and crawling to where Jerry
stood he whispered:

“This boat has the name of _Bluebird_ on her stern!”

At the same instant there came floating over the water the sound of a
voice from some one aboard the larger craft.

“We’re sinking! Quick Bill! Get the boat over and find me a life
preserver. I don’t want to drown!”

At the sound of the mysterious voice, coming so plainly amid the
stillness that followed the crash the boys were startled.

“Doesn’t that sound just like--” began Bob.

“Hush!” cautioned Jerry in a whisper. “Wait a while before you talk.”

“I tell you we’re sinking!” the voice went on. “They rammed a hole
clear through us. They did it on purpose! They want to capture me!”

“Keep quiet, you numbskull!” the boys heard some one exclaim in reply.
“You’ll be caught quick enough if you don’t keep still. Do you want
to give the whole thing away? Get below before they flash that search
light on the deck and see who you are!”

Silence ensued, broken only by the sound of some one moving about on
the deck of the schooner.

“Flash the light on ’em!” called Ned.

Jerry swung the big gas lamp around on its pivot, and the blinding
white glare illuminated the schooner. The only person to be seen on
deck was a man at the helm, and, by the beams the boys could see he was
roughly dressed.

For an instant the steersman stood plainly revealed in the beams. He
wore nothing on his head, but, as soon as the glare set him out from
the darkness he caught up from the rail a slouch hat which he pulled
over his eyes, screening the upper part of his face.

“What’s the matter with you?” demanded Jerry with a pretense of anger,
as he wanted to hear the man’s reply. “Couldn’t you see our boat?”

“If I could have d’ye s’pose I’d a stood here an’ let ye run int’ me?”
the man asked in answer. “Them gasolene boats is gittin’ too dangerous.
I’ll have th’ law on ye for this.”

“What about the law requiring sailing boats to carry lights at night?”
asked Jerry. “I guess if there’s going to be any suing done we can do
our share.”

The steersman made no answer. The wind freshened just then, and the
schooner gathered way. The helmsman put her about, and she heeled over
as the breeze came in powerful gusts.

While the after part of the sailing vessel was still in the zone of the
search light the boys observed a second figure aboard. It came up the
companionway leading down into a small cabin.

“Git down there!” the steersman exclaimed. “They’ll see you!”

The figure disappeared suddenly. The boys, seeing it would be no
further use to argue with the surly skipper, put their boat on her
course and resumed the trip to the island. They found beyond a slight
loosening of the engine, due to the shock, no damage had resulted.

“Well, I think we ran into something that time,” remarked Ned.

“Two things I would say,” put in Jerry. “If that mysterious voice, the
steersman tried to hush, wasn’t that of Noddy Nixon’s I’ll eat my hat.”

“I was just going to say the same thing,” added Bob. “I was sure I
recognized it.”

“Then he isn’t kidnapped at all,” said Ned.

“I never believed he was,” came from Jerry.

“I wonder who the other person was,” said Bob.

“I have an idea it was Bill Berry,” said Jerry.

“It didn’t sound like his voice,” interposed Ned.

“If you noticed,” went on Jerry, “he talked with two voices. When he
spoke to Noddy his tones and words were much different than when he
addressed us and threatened to have the law on us. I’m sure it was Bill
Berry.”

“Then those two are up to some mischief, I’ll bet,” ventured Ned.
“There must be some game afoot when Noddy lets it be thought he is
kidnapped, and when we find him away off here in a schooner.”

“There is,” spoke Jerry. “It’s the same game that began with the
reference to something ‘blue’ that Bill Berry made that day. It’s
the same game that we nearly discovered when we almost ran into the
_Bluebird_, and now we have the same schooner away down here on the
lake and we nearly sink in consequence of hitting her, or of her
hitting us, for I believe they got in the way on purpose.”

“But what is the game?” asked Bob.

“That’s what’s puzzling me,” replied Jerry. “I’m inclined to think that
the gang Chief Dalton is after will be found to have some connection
with this vessel, and while I have only a mere suspicion of it, I
believe the robbery of Mr. Slade’s store is--”

“Look out there! You’re going to hit me! Keep to the left!” exclaimed
an excited voice.

Jerry rapidly spun the wheel around and the _Dartaway_ veered to one
side with a swish of water, just grazing a rowboat with a man in it,
that loomed up dead ahead.

“Almost had me that time,” said the rower pleasantly as the _Dartaway_
slowed up. “It was my fault though, I ought to have had a light.”

His frank admission of his error, and his failure to abuse the boys for
nearly colliding with him, as most rowers would have done under the
circumstances, made the boys feel at ease.

“Sorry we caused you such a fright,” said Jerry. “Can we give you a
tow?”

He swung the search light about to illuminate the rowboat. As he did
so he gave an exclamation of astonishment. The rower was none other
than the ragged tramp who had been rescued from the hay barge, and who
had been given a ride in the _Terror_ following the unsuccessful chase
after the motor boat thieves. He recognized the boys at once.

“Oh it’s you, my young preservers!” the tramp said. “Well, we seem
fated to meet at odd moments. First you save my life, and then you
nearly take it from me. Well, it evens matters up.”

“Can we tow you anywhere?” asked Jerry again.

“Thanks, noble sir,” replied the tramp with the same assumed grand air
he had used when talking to Chief Dalton. “I fain would dine, and if
you can take me to some palace where the beds are not too hard, and
where I could have a broiled fowl, or a bit of planked whale, with a
sip or two of ambrosial nectar, I would forever call you blessed.”

“Do you mean you’re hungry?” asked Bob, who had a fellow feeling for
all starved persons.

“As the proverbial bear,” answered the tramp. “You haven’t a stray
cracker about your person, have you?”

“No, but I’ve got a couple of ham sandwiches,” said Bob.

“Well if you’re not at it again, Chunky,” said Jerry. “Where’d you get
’em?”

“I put ’em in my pocket at the feed this afternoon,” replied Bob,
taking the sandwiches out and passing them to the tramp, whose boat
was now alongside. “I thought they’d come in handy.”

“As indeed they do,” the ragged man put in, munching away at the bread
and meat with right good appetite. “I thank you most heartily.”

“If you care to come to our camp we can give you something more and a
little coffee,” said Jerry. “You could also sleep under shelter. We
have a tent ashore you can use and we can sleep on board the boat.”

“If it would not discommode you, I would be glad of the opportunity,”
the tramp said, dropping his assumed manner and speaking sincerely. “I
was about to spend the night in the woods,” he went on, “but I much
prefer shelter. I have a mission here, and while I am on it I have to
rough it at times. But I am almost finished.”

“Will you come aboard, or shall we tow you?” asked Ned.

“Perhaps it would be as well to tow me,” replied the tramp. “I have
some things in my boat I would not like to lose.”

The tow line was soon made fast to the _Dartaway_, and the boys resumed
their trip which had twice been interrupted by accidents. They reached
the island in safety, and soon were preparing some coffee and a light
supper. The tramp fastened his boat to a tree that projected over the
water, and, then sat at the rough table the boys had constructed under
a canvas awning.

“I don’t believe I have been presented to you gentlemen,” said the
tramp, as the night dinner was about to begin. Jerry laughing,
introduced himself and his chums.

“Are you Aaron Slade’s son?” asked the tramp excitedly, as Ned’s name
was mentioned.




CHAPTER XXIV

A QUEER MESSAGE


“Aaron Slade is my father,” replied Ned, wondering what object the
tramp could have in asking.

“The one who was recently robbed?”

“The same.”

“Well if this isn’t--” began the tramp more excited than before. “I
must--no I must not. Pray excuse me,” he went on, with an assumption of
his former grand air, “I must not refer to that. It escaped me before I
was aware of it. Pay no attention to what I said. I was going to tell
you something, but the time is not yet ripe. Now let’s fall to, for I’m
still imitating the bear in the predilection of my appetite,” and he
attacked the food with every evidence that he was speaking the truth.

The boys looked at each other in surprise. Ned, in particular, wondered
what the tramp meant by starting as if he intended to tell some secret
and then stopping. Seeing that their guest was not observing him, Jerry
made a gesture that indicated the tramp might not be altogether right
in his head. In this view Bob and Ned coincided.

They were not alarmed, however, as the man did not seem to be
dangerous. He was too busy eating to talk, and the boys soon forgot
their curiosity in making away with the food, for the trip across the
lake had given them all appetites.

It was arranged that the tramp should sleep in the shelter tent,
while the boys made use of the bunks on board the boat. It was nearly
midnight before they turned in, and the motor boys, at least, slept
soundly until morning.

As for the tramp he may have rested well, but at any rate he was not a
late sleeper, for, when the boys crawled out of their comfortable beds
for a plunge into the lake they found he had built a fire on shore and
was boiling their tea kettle over it.

“That’s very good of you, but you needn’t have gone to that trouble,”
said Jerry. “We have a gasolene stove.”

“Tut, tut!” exclaimed the ragged man. “Water for coffee should always
be boiled over an open fire. It has more flavor.”

Thinking this was only one of the tramp’s odd conceits the boys did not
argue further with him. They took their bath, their odd guest meanwhile
making coffee.

“If you’ll tell me where the bacon and other things are I’ll finish
getting this meal,” he called to them where they were splashing in the
lake.

“Shall we let him?” asked Jerry of his chums in a low voice.

“Guess he won’t poison the stuff,” said Bob. “Besides it will be ready
while we are dressing and we’ll not have to wait.”

Accordingly Jerry called out directions how to find the victuals, and
soon the savory smell of sizzling bacon and frying eggs was wafted over
the water. They had a breakfast fit for a king, and complimented the
tramp on his skill.

A little later the tramp proposed that the boys take his rowboat and
go fishing on the other side of the island. They were doubtful about
leaving him in charge of the camp.

“I see you’re a little suspicious of me,” the tramp said. “Well I don’t
blame you. However to show you that I’m all right read that.”

He held out a slip of paper, on which was written:

    “This man can be trusted. Henry Dalton, Chief of Police,
    Cresville, Mass.”

“If the chief says you’re all right, I guess that’s enough for us,”
spoke Jerry, as he handed the paper back. “We’ll take a day off and
go fishing. Don’t let any one come bothering around our camp. We have
reason to believe an enemy of ours is on this lake. He would do us some
harm if he could.”

“There are enemies of mine, also,” said the tramp. “But have no fear.
I’ll look after things.”

Getting some bait and fishing tackle the boys started off in the
tramp’s rowboat. They did not take any lunch, as they planned coming
back at noon.

“Do you think it’s all right to trust him?” asked Ned.

“I’m sure it is,” replied Jerry. “That note from the chief was genuine.
I know his writing, and the paper was the same as the chief uses in his
private office. I got a permit once from him to carry a revolver. You
remember, when we made our first auto trip.”

Satisfied that their belongings had been left in good hands, and
were safe from any chance intrusion from Noddy Nixon or his cronies,
the boys put in an enjoyable morning fishing. They made several good
catches, and when the sun indicated that it was nearly noon, they rowed
around the island to camp.

“I hope he has a good fire going so we can cook some of these fish,”
observed Bob.

“I guess he will be ready for us,” said Ned. “He seems to be a willing
worker.”

Sure enough, when the boys rowed to shore they found their odd guest
had built a fine fire in an improvised oven, and was all ready to
proceed with cooking the fish. It was the best meal the boys had eaten
since coming to camp, and they had the tramp to thank for the major
part of it. The ragged man proved he had a better appetite even than
Chunky, which is saying a great deal. The fish were done to a turn, and
the bacon gravy gave them a most excellent flavor.

So heartily did all eat that they were too lazy to do anything but
lounge around after dinner. They stretched out under the trees and
before they knew it the boys had dozed off.

Jerry was the first to awaken. It was about three o’clock when he sat
up, rubbing his eyes, and, for a moment wondering where he was. Then he
saw the lake through the trees and remembered. He looked around and saw
Bob and Ned still stretched out on the sward. The tramp was nowhere in
sight.

“I wonder if he’s gone fishing,” thought Jerry. “He’s a queer duck. I
must take a look at our motor boat.”

Slowly he walked to where the _Dartaway_ was moored. He saw she was
riding safely. Then he looked for the rowboat. It was nowhere to be
seen, though it had been tied close to the motor craft.

“I guess he’s slipped away,” thought Jerry.

At that instant the sound of oars being worked caught his ears. He
looked up and saw, coming around the point of the island, the tramp’s
craft. But the tramp did not seem to be in it. Instead it held a
fisherman, with a broad brimmed hat, a corduroy coat, green goggles on,
and a big basket hung over one shoulder. In the boat two poles could be
seen, also a gaff sticking up.

“Some one has stolen his boat,” thought Jerry. “Hi there!” he called.
“Where you going?”

“Fare thee well!” called back the fisherman. “I must away on my
mission.”

“Come back with that boat!” yelled Jerry.

“Why so? ’Tis mine,” came back the answer over the waters as the
fisherman rowed farther out from shore. “Sorry to leave you in this
fashion, but my mission calls.”

“Why it’s the tramp!” exclaimed Jerry, as he recognized the voice of
the ragged man in spite of his queer disguise. “But where in the world
did he get that rig?”

“What’s the matter?” asked Ned, having awakened and coming down to join
Jerry.

“There goes our tramp,” said Jerry.

The tramp was now quite a distance out. He stood up in his boat.

“Look--in--your--coffee--pot!” he called. “I--left--a--message!”

Then he sat down and began rowing hard.

“Hurry up, get the coffee pot!” cried Jerry. “We must get at the bottom
of this!”

He and Ned ran back to the tent. They found the pot set in the middle
of the table. Jerry threw back the cover. Inside was a piece of birch
bark, on which was written in pencil:

    “Where the _bluebird_ spreads her wings, there you’ll find the
    stolen things. Search her deep, and search her through, you
    will find I’m speaking true.”




CHAPTER XXV

SEARCHING FOR THE SCHOONER


“Well if this isn’t mystery and more of it!” exclaimed Bob. “What in
the world does it all mean, and the tramp going off in this fashion?”

The boys gathered close together, their heads bent over the mysterious
message on the birch bark.

“Let’s call to him to explain,” suggested Ned.

“It’s too late,” said Jerry. “He’s too far out. Besides I don’t believe
he’d come back. Anyhow I think I know what the message means.”

“What?” asked Ned and Bob in a chorus.

“Isn’t it plain enough?” asked Jerry with a smile. “If Andy Rush was
here he’d have half a dozen explanations.”

“Let me read it once more?” came from Ned.

“‘Where the _bluebird_ spreads her wings, there you’ll find the stolen
things. Search her deep and search her through, you will find I’m
speaking true.’”

“Why of course!” exclaimed Bob. “It must be the schooner _Bluebird_
he’s referring to, and he means your father’s things will be found in
her, Ned. It’s as plain as the nose on your face.”

“That’s so,” agreed Ned. “Is that what you make of it Jerry?”

“Sure. That part is easy enough. What does puzzle me though is that
tramp. I can’t quite make him out. He’s a funny character, and
his latest effort is stranger than any since his adventure on the
hay barge. I wonder how he knew there was stolen stuff aboard the
_Bluebird_?”

“Well that seems simple enough to me,” spoke Ned. “He’s probably been
a criminal in his time, and knows some of the crooks who robbed my
father’s store. In some way he found out they had the stolen stuff on
the schooner, and he wanted to let us know to pay for our favors to
him. You remember how excited he got when he found out my name was
Slade.”

“Yes, that’s all right as far as it goes,” said Jerry, “but you’ll
never get me to believe that tramp is either a criminal or one who
travels with thieves. He’s a different character altogether. You’ll see
I’m right. He may have found out where the stolen stuff is, but it was
in some other way than being a companion of the thieves.”

“Well, maybe, you’re right,” came from Ned. “That part can be settled
later. The main thing is to find the _Bluebird_ and see what there is
aboard.”

“Which isn’t going to be such an easy thing as it sounds,” Jerry
remarked.

“Why not?”

“Well, it may be a simple matter to locate the vessel, as the lake is
not very large, but when we get to her have you thought of what we will
do with her?”

“Go aboard, of course, and demand my father’s goods and money,” said
Ned boldly.

“You seem to forget there is a difficulty in the way,” Jerry went on.
“The men who stole the stuff, provided it is aboard the ship, are not
likely to let us come over the side as if we were on a visit, and
search for incriminating evidence. Then, too, there is Noddy, and he is
not likely to welcome a call from us. No, I think we’ll have our hands
full in getting aboard the _Bluebird_.”

“What would you advise?” asked Bob, as both he and Ned had come to
regard Jerry’s ideas as being a little better than their own on
important matters.

“I think it would do no harm to make a search and find where the
_Bluebird_ is lying,” said Jerry after a little thought. “Then, perhaps
we can decide on a plan of action. It’s a sort of following the old
recipe of making a rabbit pot-pie,--to first catch the rabbit.”

The other boys agreed this was the best idea. They watched the boat
with the tramp-fisherman growing smaller and smaller as he rowed out on
the lake, and puzzled more than ever over the queer character.

“Well, shall we start right away?” asked Ned.

“I don’t believe it would do any good,” said Jerry. “Let’s get ready
for supper, and this evening we can take a run out on the lake. We
probably will not discover anything, but it will be fun, and we may
gain a clue.”

Shortly after sunset, the evening meal having been finished, the boys
made the _Dartaway_ ready and started away from camp. The lake was
alive with power and other boats and the boys met a number of new
acquaintances they had made at the luncheon following the winning of
the prize. They speeded back and forth until dusk, and then accepted
an invitation of a party that was bound for one of the resorts on the
shore of the lake.

They spent some time there and when they reached their island dock and
made a landing it was as dark as pitch. The boat was made fast to the
wharf and then, lighting some oil lanterns, the boys walked up to
their camp, which was a little way from shore.

As the gleam of the lamps fell on the place Jerry who was in the lead
uttered an exclamation:

“Some one has been paying us a visit!” he said. “And they haven’t been
friends of ours either.”

This was soon evident, for the camp was topsy-turvy. The shelter tent
was pulled down, the utensils and camp stuff were scattered all about,
and the place looked as if a small cyclone had struck it.

“I wonder who did this?” came from Ned. “I’d like to get hold of them
for a few minutes.”

“Maybe this tells,” said Jerry, taking up a piece of paper from the
planks that served as a table. The scrap had evidently been placed
where it would be easily seen. It read:

    “You had better clear out of here before something worse
    happens to you and your boat.”

“Who signs it?” asked Ned.

“It has ‘The River Pirates’ at the bottom,” said Jerry, “but I’d be
willing to bet a new hat against a cookie that it’s Noddy Nixon’s
writing.”

“Then the _Bluebird_ has been here in our absence,” said Bob.

“Looks so,” admitted Jerry. “Now let’s see if any great damage has been
done.”

They made a hasty examination, but beyond tearing up the camp, and
upsetting things, nothing appeared to have been stolen or seriously
damaged. It seemed that the visitors merely wanted to annoy the boys.

There was nothing much that could be done until morning, so the boys,
seeing that the _Dartaway_ was securely made fast, went to sleep on
board. They rested undisturbed until morning.

“Now to hunt for the mysterious schooner!” exclaimed Ned after
breakfast. “Do you know I have a good scheme?”

“Let’s hear it,” said Jerry.

“We ought to disguise ourselves,” went on Ned. “If we go hunting for
the schooner in our motor boat the way we are now, they can see us
coming and get on their guard. We ought to make up as fishermen, just
as the tramp did, and steam around slowly.”

“They know the boat by this time,” objected Jerry.

“We can disguise her a bit by hanging strips of canvas over the sides,”
went on Ned, “and by taking the canopy off.”

“I believe that’s a good suggestion,” said Jerry. “Then we could take
the thieves by surprise. Come on, we’ll see what we can do to the boat.”

By removing the awning, and putting strips of dirty canvas over the
bright clean paint on the sides of the _Dartaway_ the whole appearance
of the craft was changed.

“Now for ourselves,” said Bob. “We’ll wear our oldest clothes.”

If the boys hoped to succeed with little effort they were doomed to
disappointment. They spent all the morning cruising around the lake
and did not get a glimpse of the craft they wanted. They did not go
back to camp for lunch, having brought some eatables with them. In the
afternoon the cruise was resumed, but with no better luck.

For three days the boys went forth every morning disguised as
fishermen, and came back at night having had their trouble for their
pains.

“This is getting tiresome,” said Ned, on the evening of the third day.
“We’re having no fun out of this trip at all. Let’s let the thieves go.
I don’t believe they have any stuff on the boat.”

“Let’s try one more day,” pleaded Jerry. “We’ll go away down to the
other end of the lake.”

So it was agreed. They made an early start the next morning and in the
afternoon found themselves cruising around at the extreme southern end
of the lake. There the body of water narrowed in one place because of
an island close to shore. It was a spot seldom visited, and there were
no camps in that vicinity.

“Let’s take a look around the other side of that island,” suggested
Jerry, when his companions proposed going home. “There might be a dozen
schooners there.”

The _Dartaway_ was headed through the narrow channel. Jerry, who was
steering, was proceeding slowly, as he was in unfamiliar waters, and
the channel seemed rather shallow.

Suddenly, as the motor boat emerged from the strait, the three boys
could hardly help refrain from uttering an exclamation. There, moored
to the shore, was the _Bluebird_.

“We’ve found her!” whispered Bob excitedly.

“Hush!” cautioned Jerry. “Pretend to be fishing while I work the boat
nearer. Don’t look at the schooner. They may be watching us.”

With swiftly beating hearts the boys listened to the throb of the
propeller that brought them nearer and nearer to the _Bluebird_.




CHAPTER XXVI

THE PIECE OF SILK


“Are you going right up close?” asked Bob. “Maybe we had better wait a
while.”

“Keep quiet,” said Jerry. “Just watch.”

The _Dartaway_ continued to approach the schooner. In the stern Bob and
Ned pretended to be trolling. Jerry held the motor craft on her course,
going at first speed, and kept her headed right for the sailing vessel.

“You’re going to bump!” exclaimed Bob in a low tone, looking over his
shoulder at Jerry.

The next instant the _Dartaway_ hit the side of the schooner with a
resounding thump, but not hard enough to do any damage, as Jerry, on
the alert, reversed the screw just in time.

“I told you we were going to hit,” said Bob in reproachful accents, for
he had nearly been tossed overboard by the recoil when the motor boat
backed away from the _Bluebird_ from the force of the blow.

“That’s all right I meant to hit ’em,” said Jerry coolly, as he
caught hold of a rope that hung over the schooner’s side. “I did it on
purpose,” he went on in a lower voice. “It will seem as if it was an
accident and we can get a chance to see who’s aboard. That knock ought
to bring ’em out.”

The boys, making the motor boat fast to the sailing vessel with the
rope, waited for a hail from those they supposed to be aboard. But a
silence ensued after the noise of the collision and the throbbing of
the motor died away. All that could be heard was the sound of the wind
in the trees, birds singing in the woods, and the lap of little waves
against the sides of the boats.

“Queer,” muttered Jerry, “I thought that would arouse them. Must be
sound asleep. Here goes for another.”

He pushed the _Dartaway_ back from the side of the schooner and then,
holding to the rope pulled her forward again so that the nose of the
motor craft hit the sailing vessel a resounding blow. Still there was
silence on the _Bluebird_.

The boys waited for several minutes, listening intently, but there was
no sign of life other than on their craft.

“I’m going aboard the schooner,” said Jerry at last.

“Do you think it’s safe?” asked Ned.

“I don’t see why not,” replied Jerry. “There doesn’t seem to be any one
in her. Maybe they’ve only gone away for a little while, but it’s our
best chance. So here goes.”

With that he scrambled up the rope hand over hand, and soon stood on
the schooner’s deck.

“Come on up,” he called to Ned and Bob. “The schooner is deserted!”

Up came the other two boys. They found the hatches tightly closed, and,
as the day was hot, they reasoned that no one would be below with all
the openings shut. The schooner was in good order, everything on deck
being neatly arranged, and showing that those who had deserted her had
not gone off in any haste. The vessel was moored to shore with bow and
stern lines.

“Well, now that we have things to ourselves,” said Jerry, “let’s see
what we can find. It ought to be an easy matter to get below.”

“I wonder if we have any right to,” said Bob.

“I don’t see why not,” came from Ned. “We suspect that some things from
my father’s store are here. If we take a look and don’t do any damage
where’s the harm. The thieves ought to be caught, and we may get a clue
to them in this way.”

“I say, let’s go below,” put in Jerry. “Try all the hatches. Maybe
some of them are not locked.”

Whoever had deserted the schooner had evidently not felt any alarm
about leaving their property without the protection of lock and key,
for the first hatch cover the boys tried slid back easily, disclosing a
rather dark and steep companionway.

“Who’s going ahead?” asked Jerry. “Don’t all speak at once.”

There was a moment’s hesitancy on the part of all three. There was no
telling what they might meet with, or who might be below.

“Pshaw!” exclaimed Ned. “I don’t believe any one’s there. I’ll make a
break.”

He started down the companion steps, and, after a second, Bob and Jerry
followed.

“It’s as dark as a pocket!” said Bob. “I wish we had a lantern.”

“Hold on!” called Bob who was in the rear. “I have a candle-end in my
pocket.”

He brought it forth and lighted it, sending a rather faint illumination
through the cabin in which the boys found themselves. No one was to be
seen, but, as was the case on deck, everything was neatly in place, and
no disorder evident.

“Now for the search!” exclaimed Ned. “We’ll see if that tramp knew
what he was writing about with his funny message.”

Around the cabin were several lockers. These the boys opened in
succession, only to find them empty. Clearly the booty, if it was
aboard, was not in this part of the vessel.

But there were many other places to search. The craft was not a large
one, but there was a forecastle, and a small hold amidships. The boys
decided to try the hold first. To get into it they found they would
have to slide back the deck hatch, and then lower themselves into the
black hole by means of a rope which hung from the gaff, and which was
evidently used to hoist cargo in or out of the schooner.

With the hatches open the dark hole was made lighter but at best it was
not a pleasant place. Still the boys were determined to explore it.
Seeing that the rope was securely fastened to the gaff, Jerry swung
himself over the hatchway, and went down hand over hand. It was about
ten feet from the deck to the bottom. Bob and Ned followed.

In his descent Bob dropped the candle, which, after burning a little
while on the bottom of the hold, went out.

“That’s nice,” said Jerry. “Don’t move now until we get a light. No
telling what sort of a hole you may fall into. Stay under the patch of
sunshine.”

The boys remained immediately under the hatchway until Jerry, groping
around, had found the candle end and lighted it. Then the boys peered
around them, Jerry holding the tallow illuminator above his head.

“Forward!” cried Ned.

The next instant there sounded a scurrying as if some one was running
about the hold.

“Some one’s coming!” cried Bob. “Come on! They’re after us!”

The noise increased, and Jerry and Ned peered forward expecting to see
some one approaching out of the darkness. Then came a series of shrill
cries.

“Rats!” exclaimed Jerry with a laugh. “I forgot that all vessels are
full of them.”

“Are you sure?” asked Bob, who had grabbed hold of the rope.

“Sure; can’t you see them?” asked Jerry, and, moving his candle back
and forth close to the floor, he pointed out where several big gray
rodents were huddled in one corner.

“Only rats, eh,” muttered Bob. “Well I wouldn’t want a lot of them to
get after me. They’re as big as cats.”

But the animals were probably more frightened than Bob had been, for
the next instant they all disappeared down some hole. The boys began a
systematic search of the hold of the vessel. It did not take long to
show that no booty was contained in it, unless, as Ned suggested, there
was a secret hiding place.

“Well, we’ll try the fo’castle now,” said Jerry as he blew out the
candle to save it, and ascended the rope. Bob and Ned followed.

By opening bull’s-eyes in the forecastle the place was made light
enough to see fairly well in. There were several bunks, and a small
table which could be folded against the side out of the way. The bunks
were provided with bed clothes, and a hasty examination of them showed
nothing to be hidden among them. The whole place was well looked
through, but there was no sign of the goods stolen from Mr. Slade’s
store.

“I guess that tramp must have had a dream,” said Ned, “or else he
wanted to write some poetry.”

“Looks that way,” admitted Jerry, who was idly looking at a figure
of Neptune carved in the middle of a panel on the forward bulkhead.
“Still I don’t believe--”

But what Jerry believed he did not state, for, the next instant he
nearly fell as the panel containing the representation of the sea god
slid back and disclosed a dark opening.

“Why--why--” exclaimed Jerry recovering his balance with difficulty.
“This is queer. I was just pressing on the trident when all of a
sudden--it happened.”

“Well I guess it did!” cried Ned. “I’ll bet it’s the secret hiding
place. Come on, let’s have a look!”

“Light the candle!” said Jerry. “It’s as dark as two pockets.”

In the gleam of the light there was disclosed a place about five feet
square, which had been built forward of the forecastle bulkhead.

“Now for the stolen stuff!” cried Ned, as he stepped inside. He flashed
the candle around, but it took only an instant to show that there was
nothing in the secret hiding place so opportunely discovered by Jerry.

“Well of all the--” began Ned, when he suddenly made a grab into one of
the corners. “This looks like something!” he went on. “Let me get to
the light.”

He stepped into the forecastle and held up to the view of his comrades
a piece of cloth.

“What is it?” asked Jerry.

“A piece of red silk!” exclaimed Ned. “It’s just like some that was
stolen from my father’s store! The things have been here, but they are
gone!”

“Perhaps they are here yet,” suggested Jerry, “only we can’t find them.
Maybe there are other secret hiding places. What had we better do?”

The boys were much excited over their find. That they were on the trail
of the thieves they were certain, but what to do next puzzled them.

“How would it do for one of us to stay here, and the others go and get
police assistance,” suggested Ned. “We ought to have the detectives on
this case at once.”

“I have a better plan,” said Jerry. “Let two of us stay here, and the
other take the motor boat and go after Chief Dalton in Cresville.”

“How will we decide who are to stay and who is to go?” asked Ned.

“We’ll draw lots,” replied Jerry. “Those who get the longest will stay
on the schooner, and the one who gets the shortest will start in the
motor boat.”

The lots were made from three straws. Jerry got the shortest.

“Well, the sooner I get off the quicker the chief will be back here,”
he observed.

“Hold on a minute,” put in Bob. “Have you figured how long we’ll have
to stay here, and not a thing to eat? You can’t get back here before
this time to-morrow.”

“That’s so,” admitted Jerry, for once forgetting to laugh at Bob’s
concern over the food question. “I’ll tell you what we’ll do. We’ll run
back to camp and bring enough stuff here to last until I come back.”

“Good idea,” said Ned. “Only there’s no use in us all going. I’ll stay
here, while you and Bob go back to camp. Bring some lanterns, and some
cold victuals. Maybe we can find some food on board. We certainly can
make coffee for there’s a stove in the galley, and I saw a coffee pot.
All we need is some coffee.”

So it was arranged. Jerry and Bob made a fast run to Deer Island, and
were soon back to the schooner with enough provisions to last the
two boys a day or more. In the meanwhile Ned had been all over the
schooner, but had made no new discoveries.

He had found a good supply of canned goods, and even some coffee,
so there was no danger of starving even if the victuals Jerry and
Bob brought gave out. The bunks were clean and there was plenty of
clothing, though it would hardly be needed for the nights were warm.

It was now getting dusk and, after seeing that his boat was in good
shape Jerry prepared for the long run back to Cresville.

“Take care of yourselves,” said he. “Keep a good watch and if Noddy and
the gang come back, don’t run any chances. They’re desperate men, and
it would be better to retreat than run the chance of a fight. If I were
you I’d sleep in the cabin or on deck in hammocks. I’ll come back as
soon as I can.”

“Better tell the chief to bring a couple of men along,” said Ned. “No
telling what may turn up.”

“All right,” called back Jerry, as he headed the _Dartaway_ through the
narrow channel and started on the course to Cresville.




CHAPTER XXVII

NED AND BOB CAPTURED


It was a little lonesome for the two boys after Jerry had gone. For as
long as possible they listened to the exhaust from the motor boat. When
that died away, and silence, broken only by the lap of the water, and
the occasional note of a bird getting ready to seek its nest for the
night, settled down, that part of the lake was not the most pleasant
place in the world.

“Well, we’ll have supper, go to bed, and it won’t seem so long,” said
Bob. “I wish this robbery business was all cleared up. I’m afraid
something may happen.”

“Oh, you’re getting nervous,” remarked Ned.

“Well, maybe I am,” admitted Bob, “but I can’t help feeling that
something is going to happen.”

After a simple but substantial meal the boys brought some blankets up
from the bunks and made beds on the deck, in the shelter of the awning
which stretched from the forecastle to the galley amidships. They were
not long in falling asleep, as they were worn out by the events of the
day, as well as being rendered drowsy by the open air and wind.

It was about an hour past midnight when there echoed over the lake,
in the vicinity of the island near which the schooner was hidden, the
muffled throbbing of a motor boat. It was not speeding, as could be
told by the intervals between the explosions. Sometimes they died away
altogether, and silence ensued.

It was in one of these intervals, which betokened that the engine had
stopped and that those in the boat were listening intently, that some
one in the craft dropped an object that awoke the echoes.

“What’s the matter back there?” exclaimed a harsh voice.

“Oh, Noddy dropped his gun butt,” some one replied.

“I couldn’t help it, Bill, honest I couldn’t,” whined Noddy. “It
slipped out of my hand.”

“Keep quiet!” exclaimed the one who had first spoken. “If you don’t
know how to handle a gun let it alone. Then keep still. Do you want to
bring the whole lake down on us? Above all, don’t yell out names like
that.”

“All right, I’ll be careful,” said Noddy in a whisper.

“It’s so fearful dark I can’t see where the channel is,” said the man
who was steering the motor boat. The craft, which was a large one, held
five men, besides Noddy Nixon, who, if he had been kidnapped by the
“River Pirates,” seemed to enjoy being in their company.

If Ned and Bob had been on watch they would have seen, coming over the
water toward the sailing vessel a small dark object. They would have
heard the throb of the motor in the boat, which was more plain, now
that it was in the open. But they were both, snoring away, blissfully
unconscious that their enemies were so close at hand.

Nearer and nearer came the boat, the man in the bow watching with eagle
eyes as the schooner loomed out from the dark shadows of the woods.

“Any signs of anything suspicious?” asked Bill Berry, who stood near
Noddy.

“Not as I can see,” came the whispered answer. “But we’ll take no
chances. I’ll stop the engine now and we can row up the rest of the
way. Then we’ll go aboard cautiously.”

Propelled by the oars, which were kept aboard the motor boat in case of
emergencies, the craft made scarcely a sound as it slipped through the
water. A few minutes later it slid alongside the schooner.

“Hold her steady,” said the man in the bow. “I’ll go up the ladder and
see if the coast is clear.”

Over the side he stepped, dropping softly to the deck. Then every sense
on the alert he moved forward. As he came around the galley he dimly
saw, stretched out under the awning, the sleeping boys.

He listened a moment, and then softly crept nearer. Now he could
hear the heavy breathing of the sleepers that told they were soundly
slumbering.

“I’m going to chance it,” the man said softly to himself. “I’ve got to
know who they are.”

He struck a match and, shading the flame with his hands, held it as
close as he dared to the sleeping ones. At once the man started back
with a half-smothered exclamation.

“Two of the boys!” he muttered. “They found us after all, and are on
guard. Lucky for us they’re asleep. What shall we do?”

It did not take the man long to make up his mind. He went softly to the
side of the schooner, and was soon back in the motor boat.

“Well, Paxton, what’s the verdict?” asked Bill Berry. “Any one aboard?”

“Softly!” exclaimed Paxton. “We’ve got our work cut out for us. Two of
those boys are asleep on deck. Now here’s my plan.”

“Hadn’t we better get out while we have the chance?” asked one of the
gang. “This game is getting too hot. There may be only two boys asleep
on deck, but who knows but what there are some police in the cabin?”

“With the hatches shut on this hot night?” asked Paxton. “I guess not.
I’m sure there are only the two lads, and we’ve got ’em just where we
want ’em.”

“What you goin’ to do?” asked Bill.

“We’re going to tow the schooner away from here,” replied Paxton. “Look
lively now. Some of you go ashore, and cast off the lines. We’ll need
’em for a tow rope.”

“What about the boys?” asked Bill.

“We’re going to take ’em along with us,” replied Paxton. “If they walk
into the spider’s web they can’t complain if the spider eats ’em.
Lively now, but walk as though you were treading on eggs.”

In a few minutes two men who went ashore, the motor boat having been
moved so they could easily land, had cast off the ropes. Then they
were unbent from the cleats, and reeved together to make a long tow
line. One end of this was fastened to a capstan in the bow, and the
other to bitts in the motor boat.

“Now if you’re all ready go ahead,” said Paxton in a whisper to his
crew. “I’m going to stay aboard the schooner to attend to the boys
when they wake up. Bill, you’d better steer. Pull the schooner right
out into the middle of the lake. If they raise a row there it can’t be
heard.”

The motor boat was worked around, by means of the oars until it was in
the narrow channel through which the schooner had come. Then it was
propelled ahead by the same means until the tow rope was almost taut.
This was done so that when the engine was started the noise of the
explosions might be farther away, and so less likely to wake up the
sleepers.

Waiting aboard the sailing craft, Paxton heard the distant sound of
the motor getting into action. Then the rope stretched out, and the
schooner began moving slowly through the water. As it gathered headway,
Paxton went to the wheel and kept her on the course, taking sight by
means of a lantern he had directed Bill Berry to place on the stern of
the motor craft. In ten minutes the schooner was well out on the lake,
which at that late hour, or rather early one, for it was about three
o’clock in the morning, was deserted.

Leaning against the wheel Paxton filled his pipe with tobacco and
applied a match. It was drawing good, and he was beginning to feel more
comfortable in spite of the cold and the hard work he had done that
night, when one of the sleepers stirred.

“I guess we’ll have a scene now,” muttered Paxton, as he lashed the
wheel to keep the schooner on a straight course down the lake, in which
direction the motor boat was towing it. A second later Bob sat up.

“Hello!” he exclaimed. “What’s up. I say, Ned, wake up! We’re adrift!”

“What’s that?” cried Ned, rubbing his eyes, and jumping to his feet.
“Adrift? Why so we are. We’re out in the middle of the lake.”

It was getting a little lighter and the mist was lifting somewhat.

“In the middle of the lake?” repeated Bob in bewilderment as he too got
on his feet and stood beside Ned. “Why I didn’t know there was current
enough in the lake to carry us this far out.”

“There isn’t!” exclaimed Ned. “There’s something wrong here. Hark!
Isn’t that a motor boat?”

The faint throb of the craft towing the schooner could be heard.

“It is, sure enough,” came from Bob. “Can’t be Jerry back already.”

“No, it isn’t Jerry,” spoke Paxton, from where he stood at the wheel,
being somewhat hidden from the sight of the boys. “It’s some friends of
mine.”

“Who are you?” asked Ned, walking in the direction of the voice.

“Never mind who I am,” replied the man. “You’ll learn soon enough. But
first you’ll have to learn a little bit about how we do things aboard
ship. So stop just where you are, young man. If you come any nearer it
might be dangerous for you. This part of the vessel is sacred to the
captain and his friends. For the present you represent the crew, and
the crew’s place is forward.

“So just march over to the fo’castle, and stay there until I tell you
to come aft. Take your beds with you, if you like, and bunk there.”

“You seem to be running things with a pretty high hand,” said Ned.

“Well, I guess I’ve got a right to. This is my ship. I didn’t invite
you to come aboard. But now you’re here you may not find it so easy to
get away. I may like your company.”

“Are you aware that we have proof that you and your gang was concerned
in the robbery of my father’s store?” asked Ned.

“I’m not good at answering riddles,” replied Paxton, composedly smoking
away. “Now you do as I say before I get mad and cause you trouble.”

The schooner was now well out in the middle of the lake. It was getting
quite light, but the boys could see no help at hand. The motor boat was
steadily towing away.

“What shall we do?” asked Bob of Ned, in a low voice.

“I don’t see anything but to do as we’re told,” answered Ned. “No
chance of help now.”

They moved forward. At that moment Paxton placed his fingers to his
lips and gave a shrill whistle.

A few minutes later the motor boat was alongside the sailing vessel.
Bill Berry and another man scrambled aboard.

“Help me tie up these lads,” said Paxton. “Then we’ll take them aboard
the motor craft. When that’s done start towing again.”

For an instant Bob and Ned had a wild thought of resisting the gang,
or at least jumping overboard and swimming to escape. But a moment’s
reflection showed how futile this would be.

Believing discretion the better part of valor at that time, they
submitted quietly while the three men bound their arms. Then they were
led to the side, helped over and were soon seated in the stern of the
motor boat.

Paxton and Bill Berry remained on board the schooner, and were joined
by Noddy, who said he did not want to stay in the smaller craft.
Then, as the sun was peeping up over the distant hills, the towing
was resumed, the schooner being pulled directly up the lake, and
approaching the western shore in a long curve. Bob and Ned were in the
hands of their enemies.




CHAPTER XXVIII

JERRY’S RETURN


Jerry’s voyage to the head of the lake and then up the river was
without incident. It was rather a lonely trip, but he had no time to
feel any alarm.

He arrived at Cresville early the next morning and left the boat at the
private dock, while he hurried to acquaint the chief of police and Mr.
Slade with the news about the schooner.

Jerry found the chief had not yet come down to headquarters, and,
not caring to tell the sergeant in charge his errand, he went to Mr.
Slade’s house.

“What’s this? Oh it’s you, Jerry, eh? No bad news I hope? None of you
boys drowned at the lake? What’s the trouble? You look as if you’d had
a tussle with a bull and came out second best,” said Ned’s father.

Jerry told his story and also related their plans.

“Good idea!” exclaimed Mr. Slade. “We’ll go and see the chief at once.”

Mr. Dalton had arrived by the time they got to headquarters and called
Mr. Slade and Jerry into his private room. There Jerry told the story
over again, to the no small astonishment of the police official.

He gave several orders over the telephone, including one to have the
motor boat _Terror_ made ready at once for a long trip.

Jerry found he would have about an hour to wait before the start back
could be made, so he went to his home and also Bob’s and told the folks
the camping party was all well. He said nothing of the discoveries, for
fear of alarming his mother and Bob’s parents.

The chief and two detectives made up the police posse. They went to
the dock where the _Terror_ was tied up and got aboard. Mr. Slade had
counted on going, but, at the last moment, found some business affairs
needed his attention.

As soon as Jerry found the chief and his men were about to start he
hurried back to the _Dartaway’s_ boat house and made ready for his
return trip. He found the engine needed some slight adjustments, and
quickly made them.

While he was bending over the cylinders, putting in some new spark
plugs, he heard a step behind, and Andy Rush joined him.

“Are you going on another trip?”

“Yes, want to come along?” asked Jerry, for he liked Andy, in spite of
the galvanic battery action of the younger lad.

“Say! Do I!”

“Jump in,” spoke Jerry.

Jerry looked over the engine to see that it was in good order. He
filled the auxiliary gasolene tank, took aboard some extra batteries
and other supplies and announced he was ready to start.

“We’ll see if we can’t catch the _Terror_,” he remarked, having told
Andy something of the plans afoot.

Jerry cranked up the motor. It throbbed and roared and he was about to
throw in the clutch and send the boat off when some one hailed him.

“I say, fair sir. Wilt take a poor wayfarer aboard? I fain must be on
my way, and my coach seems to have passed me by.”

Jerry looked up. Down the dock was approaching a ragged figure; a man
clothed in old garments that flapped about him. The mere remnant of a
hat completed his attire.

“It’s the tramp!” Jerry exclaimed under his breath. “If he doesn’t turn
up at the oddest times. I wonder what his secret is.”

“May I come aboard?” asked the ragged man.

“Don’t let him. Maybe he’s one of the thieves,” objected Andy in a low
tone.

But Jerry had different ideas. He wanted, if possible, to learn more
about the tramp. He felt that the man had a secret, and that it
concerned the robbery, and some other queer happenings of late, Jerry
was most certain.

“Wilt take an humble passenger?” the tramp asked again, seeing that
Jerry seemed to hesitate.

“Why, yes, your Majesty, if you wilt be pleased to accept such mean
transportation as your slave is able to offer you,” replied Jerry with
a smile, determining to enter into the tramp’s humor.

Past Cresville they went, and by noon they had caught up to the
_Terror_, for the chief had ordered her run slowly, as he wanted to see
Jerry. The presence of the tramp excited no comment from Mr. Dalton. On
the contrary Jerry was almost sure he saw some secret sign pass between
the chief of police and the ragged man. This, more than ever, made him
curious to get at the bottom of the strange fellow’s secret.

It was decided to go ashore for dinner at a small town which the boats
reached about one o’clock. The craft were tied up at the dock, and when
Jerry and Andy left the _Dartaway_, the tramp remained behind.

Jerry asked if the chief knew the man at all.

“Oh, I’ve seen him around,” Mr. Dalton replied. “He’s an odd character.
But never mind him. Where do you expect we’ll pick up the boys?”

“Right aboard the schooner at the island,” answered Jerry, wondering
why the chief changed the subject so suddenly.

The journey was resumed after the meal and about four o’clock the boats
emerged from the river upon the lake.

“Now for the schooner!” exclaimed Jerry as his boat swung ahead, it
having been agreed that he should lead the way. The _Terror_ was close
behind.

Several miles had been covered, when the tramp, who had not spoken for
some time, exclaimed, stretching out his hand:

“I think there’s your schooner!”

“We’re nowhere near the place,” Jerry answered.

“I think you’ll find I’m right,” the ragged man went on. “I guess
something has happened and the schooner has moved. I see her masts
sticking up from behind those trees.”

In a few minutes Jerry rounded the point. There, in full view of the
setting sun, was the schooner. There could be no mistaking her.

He steered his boat up to the sailing craft. There seemed to be no sign
of life aboard.

“Ahoy _Bluebird_!” called Jerry.

He had stopped his engine, and the chief had done the same for the
_Terror_. Amid a deep silence they waited for an answer to the hail.
None came.

Then, as the motor boats drifted alongside the schooner, it could be
seen that she was tied to the shore and deserted.

“Where are Ned and Bob?” asked Jerry, a nameless terror tugging at his
heart.




CHAPTER XXIX

THE CHASE


“Humph! This is strange!” the chief exclaimed as his boat swung up
alongside of the _Dartaway_. “Let’s go aboard.”

Making the motor craft fast, they all scrambled up and were soon on the
schooner’s deck.

A hasty search served to show that the schooner had no occupants.

“I can’t understand it,” said Jerry, who was much alarmed.

From the shore, where the tramp had gone, leaping from the schooner’s
deck, there came an excited shout.

“Here’s a clue!” he cried.

“What is it?” asked the chief as he prepared to join the ragged man.

For answer the tramp pointed to several footprints in the soft sand
near the edge of the lake.

“The man with the arrow on his shoe!” he said. “I thought we’d find him
with the gang. Now, Chief, I guess we can close in on ’em.”

Jerry and the two detectives had gone ashore by this time. They
observed several footprints, indicating that a number of men had
been tramping around near where the schooner was moored to the bank.
Probably they had been engaged in making the craft fast.

“I wonder if the boys were here also,” said Jerry.

“Looks very possible,” said the tramp. “Here are the mark of feet
smaller than those of men. Did Bob or Ned have any peculiar nail marks
in their shoes?”

“Not that I know of,” replied Jerry.

“Well, the chances are if they were not here on shore they were in some
boat the rascals had,” the tramp went on.

“You think they must have had some other boat than the schooner?” asked
the chief.

“I’m certain of it,” the ragged man replied. “How else could the
schooner have gotten here? There wasn’t enough wind all night to move
a canoe, let alone a heavy schooner. Yet we find this vessel several
miles from where Jerry left her. The thieves must have had a power
boat, gone back after their craft and towed her. Now I don’t see any
use lingering here. They’ve got a good start of us, but maybe we can
catch them.”

“Where shall we look?” the chief asked. “Up or down the lake; or follow
the river?”

“Follow the river,” the tramp said. “I’ll round these fellows up now.
We’ll land ’em at the cave if not before.”

Jerry wondered at the tramp’s manner. He seemed to have assumed control
of matters, and to be directing the hunt after the thieves.

“Who is he?” Jerry asked of the chief.

The tramp overheard the lad’s question.

“Shall I tell him?” the odd character asked. “I guess we’ve kept up the
mystery long enough, Chief, and we’re pretty near the end of the affair
now.”

“Go ahead,” spoke Mr. Dalton.

“So you think there’s something queer about me, do you?” the tramp
asked Jerry, who nodded in assent. “Well, I admit I am not what I seem.
Allow me to make you acquainted with the Duke of Wellington, otherwise
known as Detective Sergeant Layton, of New York,” he went on with an
elaborate bow and an assumption of his former grand manners.

“A detective!” exclaimed Jerry. “Well I had my suspicions all along
that you were something like that, but I couldn’t see what you were
after.”

“I’m after these thieves,” replied Detective Layton. “From the time you
rescued me from the hay barge I’ve been on their trail, first here,
then there, often in this disguise, and now I think I am about to close
in. The chase started in New York, where they committed a series of
daring robberies in department stores. For a while I lost track of
them. Then I heard they were in this section and I came here. They kept
quiet for some time and I thought I had lost them. Then I got on the
track of Bill Berry and--”

“Is Noddy Nixon mixed up in this robbery?” asked Jerry.

“I’m not sure, but I don’t believe he is,” replied Mr. Layton. “I
think he is with the gang instead of being kidnapped, but I believe he
is more a tool in the hands of designing men than an actual criminal
himself. However, we’ll soon see.

“The time the thieves took your motor boat I was after them, but they
gave us the slip as you saw. However, I managed to locate a cave where
I am sure they have their headquarters.”

“All ready, then!” exclaimed the chief. “We’ll speed the boats up after
the scoundrels!”

“Going to make it a night affair?” asked one of the Cresville
detectives. “It’ll soon be so dark we can’t see.”

“That’s all right,” said Mr. Layton. “We’ll make a start, and tie up
long enough for supper. Then we can go on all night. It will not do to
lose any time. Have we any provisions?”

“We can stop at our camp and get some,” said Jerry.

This plan was carried out, and, in a short time, both boats having been
well stocked, the craft puffed away toward where the river flowed into
the lake.

While the preparations of the police for capturing the thieves were
going on, the fellows themselves had not been idle. Once Ned and Bob
were aboard the motor boat, and the towing of the schooner was resumed,
the robbers followed a well-laid-out plan.

The schooner was taken to the little cove where she was hidden behind
the trees. Then, those who had been aboard her, getting into the motor
boat, the flight began.

Bob and Ned were gagged to prevent them giving any alarm when other
boats were passed, and they were bidden to lie at full length on the
cushions in the small open cabin of the craft, so they could not be
seen. Paxton put one of the gang to keep watch over the boys while he
attended to the steering of the boat. Another was kept at the engine
to see that it ran properly, and Noddy Nixon and Bill Berry were left
to their own devices.

All that morning the motor boat was speeded up the river. About noon
the boys could see, from the surrounding country that they were nearing
Cresville. This fact seemed to be apparent to Paxton and his gang.
He steered the boat close to shore and tied up in the shadow of some
bushes. There a rude meal was prepared, and the two captives were
allowed to eat a little. They expected to see the boat start up again
after dinner, but this was not Paxton’s plan.

He realized to go past Cresville in daylight might result in the
discovery of the two boys, and, though he knew his craft was a swift
one, he did not want any pursuit.

Accordingly he held the boat in its hiding place until dusk. Thus it
happened that Jerry and Chief Dalton, in their craft, on their journey
down the river had passed the boat in which the thieves and their
captives were.

It was after dark when Paxton gave the order to start, and the motor
craft slipped past Cresville about ten o’clock. A little while before
this the _Dartaway_ and _Terror_ had taken up the pursuit on Cantoga
Lake, starting in the race more than a score of miles behind.

Bob and Ned, though they had kept their spirits up bravely were almost
in despair. Their jaws ached from the strain of the gags, and their
bodies were tired from lying in one position so long.

Through the long night the flight continued. Past village after village
the thieves and their captives sped.

Behind them, though they did not know it, came the pursuers in the
_Terror_ and _Dartaway_. The two boats were making good time, but
were far in the rear. It was early dawn when the forces of the chief,
and Jerry in his craft, which also contained Andy Rush and Detective
Layton, passed Cresville.

“I wonder how far they are ahead,” asked Jerry.

“We’ll make some inquiries of persons ashore, as soon as it gets light
enough,” the tramp-detective said.




CHAPTER XXX

CAUGHT--CONCLUSION


About seven o’clock the two pursuing boats were about ten miles above
Cresville. They made a short stop at a little village and coffee was
prepared. While the simple breakfast was being gotten ready the chief
and Detective Layton went ashore. They learned from a man who kept a
boathouse that a large motor craft had gone up the river about four
o’clock that morning. He said he had seen it when he came down to go
out on a short fishing trip.

“Three hours ahead of us,” said Mr. Layton. “Well, if they only have
some sort of an accident we might catch them. If not, we’ll have to
trail them to the cave.”

Jerry, who had not been asleep during the past two nights, save for a
brief nap or two, was almost exhausted. Seeing his condition Mr. Layton
offered to steer the _Dartaway_.

“All right,” said Jerry. “But wake me up the moment you sight the other
boat.”

About two o’clock the pursuing boats swung out into a long straight
stretch of the river.

“We’re getting pretty close now,” the tramp-detective called to the
chief. “About five miles up is where they left the boat the other time
and took to the cave. I wish we could sight ’em now.”

“Same here,” the chief replied. “Say,” he went on, standing up and
pointing ahead, “doesn’t that look like some sort of a boat?”

“It sure does,” Mr. Layton replied. “Wait a minute.”

Holding the wheel steady with his knees he drew from his pocket a small
telescope. Adjusting it, he peered forward and looked steadily through
it for several seconds.

“I believe it’s them!” he exclaimed. “I can’t make out the figures very
well, but it’s a big motor boat, and one I’ve not seen around here
before. They seem to be having some trouble aboard. Maybe the engine
has broken down.”

“Let’s hope so,” the chief said. “If it only stays broken until we
catch up!”

The _Terror_ and _Dartaway_ were making good time against the current.
Nearer and nearer they came to the other boat. When within a mile of
her Mr. Layton could make out the occupants quite clearly through his
glass.

“There they are!” he cried. “And whatever was the matter with the
engine they’ve got it fixed now for they’ve started up again.”

“Try and get a few more revolutions out of your craft!” cried the
chief. “Every inch tells. I guess we can hit our engine up a bit more!”

“I’ll have to wake up Jerry,” Detective Layton said. “I don’t know
enough about engines to monkey with ’em.”

Jerry awoke as soon as he felt the detective’s hand on his shoulder.

“Have we caught them?” he asked.

The detective pointed ahead.

“Can you get a little more speed up?” asked the officer.

“We’ll have ’em pretty soon!” cried Jerry, as he put the engine to the
utmost limit.

The gang of thieves was now making frantic efforts to escape. Several
of the men were in the stern, and they seemed to hold guns in their
hands.

“Better lay low,” advised Mr. Layton.

At that instant a shot rang out from the boat ahead.

“I guess they mean real business!” exclaimed Andy Rush. “That sounded
like a bullet.”

“It was,” Mr. Layton said, “but they fired in the air to scare us. Go
on, Jerry!”

The _Dartaway_ was in the lead. Close behind it, however, was the
police craft. A short quarter mile separated the pursuers from the
pursued.

“They’re giving up!” cried Detective Layton.

A minute later the craft ahead had run ashore. Out of her piled several
men and Noddy Nixon. They set off on a run across the meadows which at
that point bordered the river.

“Where are Bob and Ned?” exclaimed Jerry.

“They’re probably tied in the boat!” yelled Mr. Layton. “You look after
them. The chief and I will see to the thieves!”

Jerry steered the _Dartaway_ close to where the disabled boat was
poking her nose into a mud bank. As soon as it was near enough to shore
Mr. Layton leaped for the bank. He was followed by Chief Dalton and his
men, who went off on the run after the thieves.

Jerry shut off the power and then leaped into the other boat. He saw
Bob and Ned lying bound on the seats.

“Are you hurt?” he cried, but the boys could not answer because of the
gags. Jerry saw what the trouble was and cut them. Then he released his
friends, and with Andy Rush, chaffed their hands, which were numb from
lack of circulation, caused by the tight ropes.

“Are you all right?” asked Jerry, when he saw Bob and Ned could stand
up.

“Well I guess so!” exclaimed Bob, speaking for the first time in
several hours. “Have you got anything to eat, Jerry?”

“Say, if you were to be blown up in a powder mill, I believe the first
thing you’d ask for when you came down would be a sandwich,” exclaimed
Ned. “But go ahead, Jerry, get him something to eat, and then tell us
how it all happened.”

“Come over on our boat,” advised Jerry. “We’ve got lots to eat there.”

While Ned and Bob were partaking of food Jerry quickly told of what
had happened. In turn the boys related their experience, and how, at
the last moment the engine of the thieves’ boat gave out, which lucky
chance led to their being overtaken by the pursuers.

“I hope they catch the thieves,” said Ned. “They’re a bad gang.”

“Well, I don’t care what happens as long as you and Bob are all right,”
Jerry replied.

The boys exchanged all the details since the parting at the place where
the schooner was moored, and were going over some events for the second
time when they heard a sound as of some persons approaching. A few
seconds later there appeared at the edge of the river Chief Dalton,
Detective Layton, and the two Cresville officers. Each one held a
captive by the arm, and the wrists of the captured ones were enclosed
in irons.

“Did you land ’em?” asked Jerry.

“We sure did!” cried the tramp-detective.

“Got ’em just as they were going to barricade the cave. Nabbed ’em
without a shot being fired, and got possession of a lot of plunder too.”

“Is the stuff from my father’s store there?” asked Ned.

“Yes, and from half a dozen other stores,” replied the detective. “It’s
the biggest round-up of thieves in a good while, and you boys deserve
credit for your part.”

“Where’s Noddy?” asked Bob.

“Well, he and Bill Berry got away,” said Chief Dalton. “But we don’t
mind. We got the principal ones. Noddy was not mixed up in the thefts.
He only helped the men, and I guess they bled him for money. Bill Berry
we’d like to have, but we’ll get him later. Now for home.”

The captives were taken aboard the police boat. Some of the more
valuable of the plunder was placed on the _Dartaway_, and the rest was
left in charge of one of the detectives.

There was a sensation that lasted for several days when the motor boys
got back to Cresville and the affair became known. There were stories
in the newspapers, not only in the town where they lived, but in the
New York journals. The boys were complimented on all sides for the
parts they had played.

Mr. Slade recovered nearly all of his stuff and the money taken was
found buried in the cave. He divided the reward among the boys and the
police. Several other store proprietors in nearby towns, and in New
York, received goods that had been stolen from them. The schooner, it
developed, had often made the voyage between New York and Cresville.

The thieves were tried and convicted, being sentenced to long terms in
prison.

As for Noddy, he was not found for nearly a month after the sensational
capture. Then one of the Cresville detectives, who was working on a
chicken stealing case, found him in the old hut, near which the boys
had once picked up Noddy’s knife. It developed that he had run away
after the arrest of the thieves, and had been living as best he could,
traveling about the country doing odd jobs. He was brought back home,
but was not arrested, as there was no charge against him.

“I wish he’d stayed away,” remarked Jerry, when he heard of Noddy’s
return. “He’s a bad sort of chap to have around.”

“Well I guess we’ve taught him not to interfere with us,” said Bob.

“That kind never learns a lesson,” Jerry added. “We’ll be bothered with
Noddy as long as he’s anywhere near us.”

And though he did not know it, Jerry spoke with truth. For Noddy was
smarting over what had happened, and much ashamed of the disclosures
regarding his connection with the thieving gang.

The further trouble he and Bill Berry caused the motor boys will
be told of in another volume to be called, “The Motor Boys on the
Atlantic; Or, The Mystery of the Lighthouse.”

But with the clearing up of the mystery of the robbery, and the arrest
of the gang the motor boys were destined to have a period of quietness.
They went back to Lake Cantoga after matters in regard to the trial of
the thieves had been settled, and enjoyed several days of life in the
open.

There we will leave them for the present, having a good time in their
motor boat, which proved to be all that they had hoped.


THE END




 Transcriber’s Notes:

 --Text in italics is enclosed by underscores (_italics_); text in
   bold by “equal” signs (=bold=).

 --Punctuation and spelling inaccuracies were silently corrected.

 --Archaic and variable spelling has been preserved.

 --Variations in hyphenation and compound words have been preserved.






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Motor Boys Afloat, by Clarence Young

